MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us
nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons and Dragons.
TRAVIS: (silly voice) Dungeons & Dragons!
MATT: Like that. Before we jump into tonight's
episode, we have some quick announcements to get
through. First off, we have two fantastic sponsors
for tonight's episode! Our good friends for the
whole campaign, D&D Beyond, which we'll get to in
just a second, and tonight a recurring friend
who's come by to say hi for this episode, our
friends at Backblaze. Sam?
SAM: Hi everyone! This time next week, we'll be
doing this show in New York City!
LAURA: New York City!
SAM: Get a rope. So I thought I would write
Backblaze a New York-style Broadway advertisement
to celebrate! Hit it, boys! (vaudeville music)
Dateline, the Big Apple. 42nd Street is buzzing
with the latest smash Broadway sensation:
Backblaze! The dazzling new musical the Times
calls: "Aces! Keen! The best cloud-based backup
storage musical since Cats!" Theater critic Yav
Brantley raves: "All my data, movies, music, and
character sheets were copied to a secure location.
"And that was just act one!" Dames and fellas alike
are shaking a leg to Backblaze on Broadway! With
music by Andrew Lloyd Website and Cameron
Mac-or-PC, the spectacle features glitzy stars
like Data Rivera, Computer Streisand, and the
young starlet Angela Lansbury. Backblaze will get
your toes tapping with songs like "Some Enchanted
Upload," "I Could Have Backed Up All Night," and
"I've Grown Accustomed to Her Encryption." Plus,
Blaza Minnelli and her tap dancing hard drives!
Punky Winkerbean of the New York Daily News hails,
"I've never seen a closing number where the lead
"character re-installs an operating system from a
backup disc he received via the mail! I smell
"Tony!" The best part? Tickets are just $5 a month!
That's a five-spot with no gimmicks, add-ons, or
gotchas. Go to backblaze.com/criticalrole to start
a free trial, and let them know Crit Role sent
you! Curtain up! Light the lights! Run, don't walk
to Backblaze on Broadway!
(applause)
LAURA: That was great.
MARISHA: Brava!
SAM: I like that one of your own shitty puns made
you drop the voice entirely.
MARISHA: Sam is my favorite when he's judging his
own jokes.
SAM: Thank you, Taliesin, for this stunning
Broadway style.
MATT: Its second appearance now on Critical Role.
MARISHA: I feel like someone needs to name a bong
Blaza Minnelli, by the way. That's a perfect bong name.
MATT: Get to it, Critters.
(laughter)
MATT: And, as I mentioned before, thank you again,
our friends at D&D Beyond for being our second
sponsor for tonight's episode. We've mentioned
before, and we'll say it again, the new Waterdeep:
Dragon Heist adventure from Dungeons & Dragons
that I got to consult on and am super proud of is
now available on D&D Beyond, that's dndbeyond.com.
It will guide players from levels one to five, it
has a lot of fun events to it, and a cool heist
rush-adventure story. It's really cool. After
that, you can also explore the legendary
Undermountain Dungeon below the city of Waterdeep,
called the Dungeon of the Mad Mage, which is
levels five to 20. It's quite a bulky bit! It's
pretty cool, I was just in Seattle a couple of
days ago at their office and I got to see some of
the stuff that's in the book, it's pretty badass.
They've put out one piece of art that has the mind
flayer pirate captain in one of the stages, which
is basically Davy Jones. It's Davy Jones, but he's
a mind flayer. It's pretty great. But there's a
lot of fun stuff in there, I'm excited for you
guys to check it out. That will be available for
preorder on dndbeyond.com right now and will be
released November 2nd, so go check it out. Let's
see, other announcements to get through.
TRAVIS: Chick-a-chick ah!
MATT: Bow bow! Jesus. It's the five golden rings
thing. You can't resist it. Next week, guys, we
are in New York. We are at New York Comic Con with
our live show next Thursday. Tickets are still
available. It's at the United Palace in Washington
Heights next Thursday the 4th. They're available
now via Ticketmaster. You don't need a badge to
the convention to attend, it's completely offsite
and a separate entity, so come join us! If you're
attending New York Comic Con be sure to pick
up a presale ticket to come meet us at the
convention as well, we have panels going on, it's
going to be crazy. You can find all the events and
information for it at critrole.com/events. We also
have a bunch of shows that are all happening now!
TRAVIS: Yeah, man!
MATT: All developed and put to the test and given
creation from our fantastic creative director,
Marisha Ray.
ALL: Yay!
LIAM: Yaas, queen! She's working her butt off.
MARISHA: I'm so tired.
LIAM: Working her butt off.
MATT: I know. The latest episode of Between the
Sheets, starring our fantastic Travis Willingham,
aired this Monday-- it was great-- is now
available on YouTube. If you didn't get a chance
to see it then or subscribe to our Twitch, it's on
YouTube now for free.
MARISHA: Go watch it!
MATT: Go watch it, it's really great.
SAM: Or listen to it.
MATT: Yes, that's right, the podcast as well.
TRAVIS: They might get me confused with you just
because our voices are so--
MATT: It's true, that happens all the time. Laura
will be the next guest on Between the Sheets next
week, so you get to look for that next Monday on
twitch.tv/criticalrole.
LAURA: I wonder what I said.
MARISHA: Luckily we recorded it all.
MATT: There you go. That'll be live at 7:00pm this
coming Monday at twitch.tv/criticalrole, or you
can watch it on YouTube the following Wednesday.
Our newest show, All Work No Play, are these two
buggers who have returned, too.
SAM: That's tomorrow night.
MATT: Tomorrow night, also at 7:00pm Pacific here
at twitch.tv/criticalrole. Look for that, it's a
continuation of their grand podcast from ages
past. It's real special.
LIAM: We're going to jump in the chat.
SAM: We're going to jump in the shat?
LIAM: We're going to jump in the shat.
TRAVIS: That's a good activity.
LIAM: We're going to shat in the chat tomorrow
night during the show.
ALL: Shat chat.
MATT: I'm sure that's an old AOL chat room that no
one wants to go to. But yeah, tomorrow night, look
forward to that. Let's see, merch, Laura, you have
some announcements?
LAURA: Yeah. Oh my gosh. We have our first Keyleth
shirt.
TRAVIS: Yeah!
SAM: It's out?
LAURA: It's in the store right now! There's two
styles; we got our "Sleeves are Bullshit" shirt--
why don't we have it?
TALIESIN and MARISHA: We did have one.
SAM: Where is it? I still haven't seen it!
LAURA: We'll bring it out during the break; it's
really cool. Go check it out at Crit Role:
shop.critrole.com. You know, they've got one
that's sleeveless, that's a girl's, and then one
that's unisex that's not as sleeveless. And those
are pre-order, so if you order them, they're going
to ship in two weeks, so that means they're not
sold out immediately, so that's really great for
people that want to actually get them. We also
have our Deven Rue maps. By the way, that
Keyfish-- this Keyfish-- was designed by Lauryn
Ipsum, who's phenomenal and we know her from her
work on the artbooks. We have our mini Yasha bust
in the store right now; we have the Wildemount
dice that are still in the store right now, and
there's other stuff like a bumper sticker that you
can proclaim-- I keep talking about the bumper
sticker.
MARISHA: Traveler is my co-pilot.
TRAVIS: Trying to spread that good word.
LAURA: That's right.
TALIESIN: You want to see one on the 405 one day,
don't you?
LAURA: I do! I really want to see the bumper
sticker.
TRAVIS: Just run up and bumper tap them.
TALIESIN: They get out and they see Laura and go,
"Ah!"
LIAM: Do I see the shirt waiting in the wings
right now? We do.
MARISHA: Yes! Hey, Vinny!
LAURA: This is the uni-sexy one. It's so
uni-sexy.
SAM: Oh, wow.
LAURA: (British accent) Look, I don't know if you
can see it, but it's a goldfish with little dice
trailing behind, and then there's a special little
treat at the bottom that says, "It's fine, we're gods."
SAM: Oh, that's so cool!
LIAM: That fish looks so disturbed.
TALIESIN: It is a very disturbed fish, yeah.
MARISHA: That fish has instant regrets.
TRAVIS: Yeah, it's like it jumped off a cliff and
killed myself for no reason.
MARISHA: "What did I do?"
TRAVIS: With nothing achieved.
MARISHA: We just lost money on that death. It was
a very expensive death.
TRAVIS: I loved it. So good.
MATT: All right then, guys. I believe that's the
end of my announcements, unless you have anything
to add to that. I think it's time for us to get
into this heroic adventure, and as a celebration
of other real heroes in this world, some by the
name of Christine. Let's take our way down
to tonight's episode of Critical Role.
[TV static, click]
[groovy Critical Role theme]
MATT: Welcome back. Last we left off, The Mighty
Nein had been following a story thread. They had
encountered some pieces of paper that alluded to a
mystical orb that they had previously encountered
that seemed to be related to something about your
patron, Fjord. After unknowingly having a vision
and absorbing this orb within yourself, you
completed your business up in the Empire, and
following information in this note, you made your
way south outside of the Dwendalian Empire to the
Menagerie Coast to the city of Nicodranas, which
was home-- and is home-- to Jester.
MARISHA: Freudian slip.
MATT: Yeah. Bought some pets along the way, lost
some pets along the way, but you met the Ruby of
the Sea. You aided her in absolving herself of the
stress of having a really, unfortunately
aggressive admirer who was becoming a serious
problem, so you told him to stop by cutting off
his hand and sending him away forever.
SAM: Yeah, and killing all of his friends.
MATT: Then you went to inquire the docks at night,
looking for an individual named Marius LePual.
MARISHA: It's bad when you say it like that.
TRAVIS: The recap really sticks it in and turns
it.
MATT: You stealthed you way there, began to
formulate a plan to listen in. Unfortunately, due
to a not quite as quiet attempt at entering the
water, garnished their attention. A not quite
effective attempt at deceiving them triggered them
to realize that they were being followed and
proceeded to try and cover their tracks and take
out those who would be following them. That led to
a scuffle in the battlefield of the docks here in
the wharf where you alerted the guards, managed to
take down these shadowy figures, captured Marius
LePual, and hijacked their ship called The Mist,
where you managed to leave the docks out into the
night air, the moonlit open night. You had just
managed to take down a few figures that remained
on the ship, a few things were burned in the
process. The chaos was palpable. Caduceus managed
to swim out to you guys in time to make it onto
the ship, and where we left off, you all had taken
a moment, and some of you began to head back into
the ship to see what lied within. Mighty Nein,
what would you like to do?
LIAM: Well, you know, all told, I think that went
very well. It could've been worse; they attacked
us, unprovoked. I know that we were not exactly
normal-seeming to them, but we did not get
threatening with them. They made the first move,
and it just unraveled from there, what can you do?
Sometimes, you just have to follow the cabbages in
front of you.
MARISHA: What?
TRAVIS: Yeah. I'm at the helm. Is there anybody
down below, seeing about that?
MATT: Jester, I think, was rushing down.
LAURA: I was on my way down, right when I stuck an
axe in the back of a guy's head.
LIAM: What did you say?
MARISHA: That's right.
LAURA: I accidentally stuck an axe in the back of
a guy's head. I didn't mean to though, I was
aiming for his shoulder.
MARISHA: You can Speak with Dead though, right? Is
that something you can do?
LAURA: I can do that.
MARISHA: Maybe that's how we interrogate him?
LAURA: I don't know if I have it prepared,
though.
SAM: We could sleep on it.
MATT: Who's heading down?
TRAVIS: Yeah, I was going to say, I'm at the helm.
Beau, if you'll stay with me. We need to--
LAURA: I do have it prepared!
TRAVIS: We need to check the ship for damages
because we tried to blow it up a couple of times,
and then if the rest want to head down and see
what's below.
SAM: I'll come with.
MATT: Jester and Nott? Who else?
LIAM: I will go down as well.
MATT: Okay, and Caleb. Caduceus, you're staying
up. Yasha's--
TALIESIN: I am going to just sit at the front of
the ship, wet, and I'm not in any of this right
TRAVIS: Any chance you want to come up and help
me? I pull a big piece of splintered wood out of
my forehead, throw it over to the side. In time,
I'm good.
MARISHA: I'll help you out.
TRAVIS: Thanks.
MATT: Yasha steps over to you, Caduceus, and
she puts a hand to your shoulder and she goes,
"Glad you're okay."
TALIESIN: You keep leaving.
MATT: "You keep finding me. Or they do."
TALIESIN: I think you might have the right idea.
SAM: (whispering) Oh no.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm just going to sit.
MATT: Yasha stands up, looks back towards you
guys, goes over and takes a rope and begins
helping you guys hold onto the sails, watching you
and figuring out what to do. None of you have ever
really run a boat before.
MARISHA: Yasha's following me? I'm like: You can
follow me, but I'm just--
MATT: Well, she's just helping you out with
whatever you need on the ship.
TRAVIS: I'll bark out: Make sure the sails are
open, tighten all the everything off, and then
check the exterior of the ship if you can just for
breaks in the wood, fire marks, any damage that
you can see.
MATT: Okay, make an investigation check.
MARISHA: 15.
MATT: Okay, glancing over the side where the
Fireball had impacted, a lot of the wood is
charred black. There is visible sign of burning.
Nothing is on fire, but there was a flash-burn.
Some of the wood right around the edge of the
deck is broken and splintered in a bit and part of
the sail underneath was burned and singed. Not
enough to the point where it tore it away from the
mast. But there is visible damage, but nothing that
impedes your movement. Just more aesthetic damage.
MARISHA: It just looks more dope now.
TRAVIS: More dope?
MARISHA: Yeah, we look like badasses. I think it
makes the ship look cooler.
TRAVIS: Nice.
MARISHA: Yeah, we look rad.
TRAVIS: Less fancy will actually do us some good
in these waters, so that's good.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: You guys head down. Jester, as you're the
first person down, the first thing you notice is
at the bottom of the steps, you see the fellow
with the axe stuck in him and he's on his stomach
and slowly crawling forward.
LAURA: He's not dead!
SAM: Heal him!
LAURA: I'm out of spells.
SAM: Take the axe out of him.
LIAM: Is it better to pull it out or leave it in
place?
LAURA: Is it like a puncture wound? Can I cast--
SAM: I'll ask him. Would you like us to leave the
axe in or take it out?
MATT: He looks over his shoulder. You see the
blood streaks down the side of his face and--
(groaning) begins to crawl quicker away from you.
LAURA: No, no, no. I hold onto his ankles.
MATT: (groaning) His fingernails are scraping
against the wood floor.
LAURA: I know it's really terrible. I'm sorry that
I did this, I hope you're okay.
SAM: Can't you do healing or anything?
LAURA: I mean I can cast Spare the Dying, but he's
already not--
SAM: Spared?
LAURA: Yeah: dying.
MATT: That's when he passes out.
LAURA: I cast Spare the Dying.
MATT: Okay. He's just like, "Ugh."
LIAM: We're just going to leave hole in his head
like Phineas Gage?
LAURA: Well, I think, you know, maybe Deuce could
do something about it?
SAM: Do you want me to go get Deuce?
LAURA: Yeah. See if he'll come down here for a
moment.
SAM: All right, I'll run up there and get him.
LIAM: I'm just going to move the axe head a
centimeter or two.
LAURA: Don't move the axe! What if his brain
starts leaking out?! Don't do it!
SAM: If you press on it, can you get his hand to
move?
TRAVIS: Give it a little flick.
LAURA: That's so messed up.
MATT: Nott, as you rush up to the shadowed deck of
The Mist, the moonlight still coming down, you can
see the outer shape of the still-damp Caduceus,
legs tucked into his shoulder, leaning back
against the inside of the left hand of the deck,
or what would be considered the port side.
SAM: Mr. Clay? You look-- are you okay?
TALIESIN: I don't know. It's been a day. It's hard
to gauge.
SAM: Yeah. Are you cold?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
SAM: I have this cloak that would maybe fit one of
your shoulders?
TALIESIN: I'm going to be okay.
SAM: Well, if you can muster the strength, it
would be great if you could come downstairs and
maybe help save an individual's life?
TALIESIN: I'll get up and go down. See what's down
there.
MATT: The quarters of this ship, it's designed to
be not a comfortable ship, but a fast ship. The
crew's quarters and the deck below was called--
for bigger ships, it'd be the gun deck, but it's
where the cabin is. It's pretty tight for a human.
Caduceus, you're have to really bend and stoop
down to make your way through. But as you come
down, you find both Jester and Caleb currently
sitting around an unconscious enforcer, one of the
cloaked figures that was involved with the crew
that previously had this ship.
LAURA: He got an axe in his head.
TALIESIN: It's probably good you didn't pull it
out.
LAURA: Yeah, see!
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to tap him on the head
and cast Healing Word at 3rd-level.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: That's 11 points right there.
LIAM: As soon as Cad's hands start to glow, I yank
the axe out of his head.
MATT: Okay, you yank it out and there's a streak
of blood and you watch as what would be the open
axe wound begins to slowly seal itself up to the
point where it's still going to be healing for a
while, but it scabbed over instantaneously.
SAM: Look, you just saved a life! That's good
news, right?
TALIESIN: Well, he'll be dead eventually. I'm
going to head back upstairs.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: Fuck me! Oh god! Help!
MATT: Caduceus heads back upstairs.
LIAM: Caduceus is America tonight.
TALIESIN: Too real.
MATT: The person comes to consciousness
immediately as the axe is pulled. (gasping) You
get a better look at him now. You can see
scruffed, probably unshaven for the past two
weeks, coming out in tufts. It looks like there
are parts where the hair isn't growing in because
there's scarring or some sort of heavy acne at a
younger age prevented those follicles from
developing. Pockmarked face, weathered from sun
and perpetual sunburns. You can see the actual
hair itself is a matted, greasy mess of a light
brown color. Looks like the kind of person you'd
imagine lives at sea and not in a very monetarily
comfortable income.
LAURA: Oh hi, bud.
MATT: "What's that? Who the fuck are you?"
LIAM: Jester, this is your axe.
LAURA: Thank you.
LIAM: Ja.
LAURA: So we have this ship now, but I just wanted
to say: Hi, welcome to the crew! You know, we're
The Mighty Nein! All your friends are gone right
now, but it's because you attacked us first, really.
MATT: "Just following orders, sorry."
LAURA: No, see! That's okay! I understand
following orders.
SAM and LAURA: Uh-huh.
SAM: Yes, we are a tight crew that follows orders
as well. Caleb is our leader, and we--
LAURA: Hmm.
SAM: We are enforcers of justice and saw that
justice needed to be done.
MATT: "I don't know anything about that."
LAURA: What were you guys doing?
MATT: "We were delivering a message, picking up a
message."
LAURA: That's it?
SAM: A whole boat just for a message?
MATT: "Well--" In his position right now, he's
being trepidatious in giving you information. The
more you're prying, the more he's closing off and
his words are trailing off. "I don't--"
LIAM: Well, buddy, we're at sea now. We are not at
the dock any more. You are trapped with us. We
have questions and I don't want to alarm you. None
of us want to put an axe in your head or anything.
LAURA: No, I don't want to do that. That was
really sad.
LIAM: Right, we want to just get along. We're all
tired. I'm tired, but I'll go to work if I need to.
TRAVIS: Oh jesus christ!
(laughter)
MATT: Make an intimidation check.
TRAVIS: Oh my god!
LAURA: That's so terrible!
TRAVIS: Fuck!
TRAVIS and MARISHA: But!
MARISHA: I was going to say, that's how we know
Caleb is serious! But!
TRAVIS: We'll be listening to him lift that rocking
chair outside.
LIAM: 18.
MATT: 18. His whole body tenses, his eyes dart
around the three of you and then slackens and he
exhales in a sense of resignation. "You know what?
Fuck, I'll tell you what you want. Anything you
"need to know. Just-- can you let me go? Drop me
back off in town or something?"
LAURA: Yeah, I think that seems like something
we're going to do.
LIAM: The easy route is what I'm talking about.
Good decision.
MATT: "Yeah, well, it's not worth it." He sits up
and you see that he's bruised and even though he's
been healed, he's not used to the aftermath of
physical confrontation the way you guys are. He's
like (groaning), leans up against the table a bit
and puts his back against it so he's leaning
against the leg and top of it. (groaning)
LAURA: Who do you work for?
LIAM: We have a lot of questions, so tell us
everything.
MATT: "This is The Mist. We're a sister ship to
Captain Avantika's. Our captain was Captain
"Jawgrasp, but I take it you probably killed him
too."
LAURA: He attacked us first, you know.
MATT: "Well, it makes sense. We're not supposed to
leave any survivors who've seen what they
"shouldn't have seen. General business."
LAURA: Oh, really? Why?
MATT: "Just don't want to be followed. It's part
of our directive."
SAM: Are you pirates?
MATT: "More or less. We'll just say we're not keen
on the taxation and enforcement of the Concord on
"these seas. So we do what we feel is necessary."
LAURA: I like it.
SAM: Freedom fighters.
MATT: "Yeah."
SAM: You said that you're sister ship to Captain
Avantika?
MATT: "The Squalleater, that's her ship."
LAURA, MATT, and LIAM: The Squalleater.
SAM: Ah yes, we did know that.
LAURA: Yes, we did.
LIAM: Gesturing to the desk and all the burned
papers: What's all this, then? What was this that
we can't read anymore?
MATT: "Primarily it was maps to locations of
things that were important. For our travels."
LIAM: Like?
MATT: "Like things that-- I wasn't the navigator!
I didn't know specifically, but I was told to
"burn everything."
LAURA: Is there some stuff you didn't get to?
MATT: You rummaged through and found a few things.
Most of it's scrap and ash, or blank sheets that
look like they were scribbled notes in a code that
you don't really understand. This is the only
visible thing.
TRAVIS: Oh yes, Matthew! Do us right! Ooh!
LIAM: Take care of him. I pull out the book and I
begin to do the ritual for Comprehend Languages
to see if that will help with the code. It's a long shot,
but I'll give it a shot.
LAURA: What was the message you were trying to
get?
MATT: "We were sent by Avantika to head back to
Nicodranas, and we're supposed to wait for about a
"week or two. Interface with that guy Marius.
Either he was going to pay us back for the money,
"if he didn't get what he was supposed to find, and
if he did have what he was supposed to deliver--
"one of the things I burned was a drawing of it, it
was an orb thing. We were supposed to take that
"back to Avantika."
SAM: Where is Avantika?
MATT: "Avantika's on-- what's the island called? I
don't remember. Don't fucking remember what it
"was called. It was on there! That's it right there."
SAM: Is it a secret island?
MATT: "It's not a secret; it's just mostly
avoided. It's near one of the reef clusters of the
"Lucidian Ocean, this side of the coast."
LAURA: Do you see it, Caleb? Do you see it?
LIAM: I'm doing a ritual spell for 11 minutes.
LAURA: Do you think Mending would help fix that,
or would it make the piece of paper come together?
TRAVIS: Yeah, great fucking call.
LAURA: Mending!
MATT: All right, you do the Mending cantrip, and
because I do not have a completed map for you,
we'll use our imagination.
LIAM: D&D!
MATT: It completes a much larger piece of paper,
that you think would have a bunch of other either
islands or the things around it. It looks like it
may have been a much larger size. Unfortunately,
the ink does not come through on it.
MARISHA: But we still have the ink of that.
MATT: You still have the ink of that, yeah. It's
a large piece of paper that is mostly blank, and
then there's that one section that is stained with
the burned edges and has the actual drawing.
LIAM: Oh wow, so it spread out blank from-- that's
cool.
LAURA: Okay.
SAM: So it's an island.
LIAM: The code was where? You said there was a
code, I thought?
MATT: There was some things with bits of coded
language on it, it looked like. But those have
also been burned, and they're in chunks. You do
your--?
LIAM: Yeah, it takes ten-ish minutes to do
Comprehend Languages, and if I'm touching--
MATT: Is it ten minute casting time?
LIAM: It is ten minutes plus one minute as a
ritual. So yeah.
MATT: As a ritual, it's whatever the duration
is--
LIAM: Casting time: one action, plus ten minutes.
MATT: One action plus ten minutes, okay. There you
go. Then it would be a total of 11 minutes. All
righty. While you're working on that, you guys can
continue to pry, if you want.
LAURA: If we drop you off, are you going to change
your name or something? Are you afraid Avantika is
going to come and kill you?
MATT: "I mean, probably lay low for a while.
There's other jobs out there. Find my way back to
"Darktow eventually."
SAM: Tell us about-- oh, sorry.
LAURA: No, you go. You go next.
SAM: Oh, all right. Tell us about Avantika.
MATT: "She's a weird one. Her whole crew, they've
got some weird mystical thing they're obsessed with."
LAURA: Like the ball? Is it the ball?
MATT: "That's one of the things we're supposed to
be picking up, yeah. They've got some creepy
"religious thing. We work for her. She hired us as
the sister ship out of Darktow and we've been
"doing errands for her."
LAURA: Docktow?
MATT: "Darktow, yeah."
LAURA: What's that?
MATT: "It's generally the hub of most unlawful
activity out here. Used to belong to the Concord,
"but about 50 years back, it was taken by people of
my professional interests and they haven't been
"able to take it back since."
LIAM: You're talking about a place, an island, a
building?
MATT: "Yeah, it's an island."
SAM: Wait, we already know what the islands are.
Swavain Islands. I can't even read my writing.
That's where we were told Avantika is.
LAURA: Is that what this is? Swavain Islands?
MATT: "Swavain Islands is the whole series of
islands."
TRAVIS: It's a cluster out in the Lucidian Ocean.
MARISHA: And Darktow is also an island?
MATT: "Darktow is one of the islands far, far west
of here, though."
LAURA: Why does it say Y, Y, Y, Y?
SAM: I think those could be little pointers.
MATT: "I'm not the navigator, but I remember going
in and out. There were little markers set on areas
"where we were supposed to-- like visual guides if
we were on the right paths and to help us get
"through the reef."
LAURA: Because it's on the other side of the
reef.
MATT: "And to go around is another hundred miles
to your trip."
LIAM: And you've made this trip yourself?
MATT: "Yes. Well, we've made to and out once. We
were going to go back after this."
LIAM: What are the risks one would encounter
trying to traverse this area?
MATT: Are you still working on your spell?
LIAM: Oh.
SAM: Do you live on the island? Does Avantika live
on the island?
MATT: "Oh, god no. No one's going to fucking
settle on that thing. It's fucking cursed."
SAM: The island is cursed?
MATT: "Yeah!"
SAM: So she docked there for a while, or--?
MATT: "It's supposed to be something there that
she wants. Well, she's waiting on us to get back
"with whatever we're supposed to pick up, and if
they didn't have it there, then we were supposed
"to try and find out where the next one might
possibly be."
SAM: The next one?
LAURA: On the hunt for ancient relics.
SAM: It's a dangerous game. Who knows how it will
end?
LAURA: Only two will find out.
LAURA and SAM: Yeah!
SAM: Oh, sorry.
TRAVIS: Jesus! Maybe I jump overboard.
SAM: Can you tell us, because this is a bit shredded,
you were here before, right? You were here?
LAURA: That's the island? That's where the island
is, then?
MATT: "I think that's the island, yeah, it's
mostly jungle-covered."
SAM: Did the wind blow you out, or did you fight
against the wind to leave? Was this east, is this
west, where is this?
MATT: "I don't know." You get the sense the more
he looks at it, one, he's definitely not the
navigator of the ship's crew, and probably can't
read.
LAURA: What's your name?
MATT: "Gallan."
LAURA: Gallan.
MATT: "Gallan Wesmen."
LAURA: I like your name.
MATT: "Thank you."
LAURA: Have you heard of The Traveler, Gallan?
MATT: "I've met many travelers."
LAURA: Have you heard of The Traveler?
MATT: His eyes go a little narrow. He's like, "Oh
no, not another one."
TRAVIS: Another one what?
LAURA: Do you want maybe a brochure? I could tell
you about him.
MATT: "I'm okay."
LAURA: You could spread his name wherever you go.
MATT: "I'll think on it."
LAURA: All right.
SAM: You've met Avantika, right? Sorry to
interrupt. I don't want to cut off your weird
evangelizing, but you've met Avantika?
MATT: "I've seen her. I've not actually spoken to
her, that was mainly--"
SAM: Have you seen her use any magic?
MATT: "No. She mainly stays on the ship."
LAURA: What does she look like?
MATT: He scratches his head. "She's elf, I think.
She's got them elven features, the pointy ears,
"the whole brown-red skin. Big hair that comes in
strings. Sleeveless coat, high collar, big scarf thing."
MARISHA: I don't know, I got distracted by the
sleeveless coat aspect. That's all I heard.
TRAVIS: When he gives descriptions and we don't
fucking writes notes, it bites us in the ass.
MATT: "I didn't get all the details. I wasn't one
of the important ones."
LAURA: You should be important!
SAM: You survived this brutal attack. You are
extremely strong.
MATT: He's sitting there going, "Yeah. Yeah you're
right."
SAM: Everyone else died. You had an axe in your
head!
MATT: "Fuck them! Fuck them! I'm a survivor."
SAM: You had an axe in your head! You survived!
MATT: "I had a what?" He reaches back and is
like-- There's like still blood back there, of
course, and he's like, "I'm okay? Is it bad?"
SAM: It's nothing to you. It's nothing! Missed all
the major organs.
(laughter)
SAM: You're fine.
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: What else do we need to know? Anything? How
about this ship, you know this ship? Is there
anything funky on the ship? How much food stores
do we have? How many days of food and water?
MATT: "Well we'd just stocked up so we've got
probably about two weeks of tack and water
"and some ale below."
LAURA: Do you know how to sail?
MATT: "I know how to repair. I was more of the
ship carpenter."
SAM: You know what we should do first? Since we
have a carpenter on board?
LAURA: What?
SAM: On the side of the ship it says "The Mist."
LAURA: We should change the name.
SAM: We should get some new letters going.
LAURA: Like Mysterious Ball. The Mysterious Ball.
SAM: Yes, The Mistress of the Loins. I don't know,
what would be a good name?
LAURA: The Mistake.
SAM: That's not bad.
TRAVIS: Kind of appropriate?
MARISHA: The Mistake!
MATT: That's really on brand!
SAM: We took The Mist, and now it's The Mistake.
LIAM: Did my spell trigger yet?
TALIESIN: There's at least five jokes in there.
MATT: I'll say sure. Technically ten minutes is a
while, but we'll say between the small talk,
you've completed your spell.
LIAM: Only because I want to say, the name as it
is, is fairly appropriate. We might want to change
it to change up our appearance and stuff. Do
you know what Mist means in Zemnian?
SAM: Fog?
LIAM: It means shit.
LAURA: Does it?
LIAM: Yeah, manure. Crap, it means crap. It's
pretty on brand for us, honestly.
LAURA: I don't want to ride around in The Shit.
LIAM: You've been doing it for several months now,
Jester.
LAURA: You just draw it, you don't live in it.
LIAM: We're going to add on to-- Mistake is funny,
too. I like that. Can I read this code?
MATT: Sure. With the slips that you have, you read
through it and it seems to be a list of supplies
that were supposed to be purchased. A lot of them
seem to be heavy bits of rope, chains, climbing
pitons. You see ball bearings, torches. You're not
quite sure why this was encoded, per se, and
only for the slips that you have that are visible,
but it's mainly just a list of materials.
LIAM: Okay. See these squiggles here? This is
either just supplies, or maybe they are trying to
make booby traps for their island. I don't know.
SAM: Are there any intact maps, like larger scale
maps of the ocean?
MATT: Unfortunately, no. You look around you and
there is ash everywhere. Even the air has bits of
ash that are still floating in the space. They
burned-- through the purpose of that battle while
you guys were dealing with all of that, this guy
was in here torching everything. You're lucky
to have gotten that bit.
LAURA: Man, you did a really good job with what
you were told to do.
MATT: "Thanks. I take pride in my work." He's
still touching the wound in the back of his
head, unsettled.
LIAM: Little ridge that he's not used to.
SAM: Caduceus, are you down here?
TALIESIN: Oh no, I'm not. Just me enjoying a head
wound.
LAURA: Well, okay, I'm going to go upstairs.
SAM: All right. Is he tied up? Are you tied up?
LAURA: He's not tied up.
MATT: "No. I can-- come on."
LIAM: Do you have any weapons left on you?
MATT: You look over, and he had a sword. The
thing he was swinging and attacking you guys with
in the doorway earlier.
LIAM: Does he have it now, or has he chucked it?
MATT: No, it tumbled down the stairs when to took
an axe to the head.
LAURA: I will take that.
MATT: As you're taking it he's like, "Sorry about
that."
LAURA: It's okay.
MATT: "Profession."
SAM: Yeah, yeah.
LIAM: That's water under the bridge. We just don't
want any new problems, yeah? And there's a lot of
us here; so it would be foolish to do anything,
right?
MATT: "Yeah."
SAM: You have now officially been conscribed to
The Mighty Nein--
LAURA: Temporarily.
SAM: --for the purposes of this sea voyage, at the
end of which, you will be compensated for your
duties. If you kill any of us, you will be thrown
overboard.
LAURA: If you jump overboard, we'll jump after
you, and we'll bring you back.
SAM: Also, as a result of us not mostly knowing
how to sail, you are also the first mate.
MATT: "Okay."
LAURA: Congratulations.
TRAVIS: That's a big promotion for him. Carpenter
to first mate!
MARISHA: He's kind of the worst.
SAM: Congratulations!
MATT: "Okay."
SAM: Welcome to The Mighty Nein.
LIAM: You just got a come-up.
MATT: "Thank you. Should I go get my stuff,
then?"
SAM: You're the first mate! Why don't you give us
an order?!
MATT: "Ah!" He points towards you and, "Um." He's
not a very intelligent fellow. "Go... fetch me
"some... dried meat."
LAURA: Yeah, I don't feel doing that. Maybe you
should just go upstairs.
MATT: "I'm going to go lay down for a minute."
LAURA: Hmm, okay. I'm just going to tie your hands
while you're sleeping, though, okay?
MATT: "Okay."
LAURA: All right.
MATT: You head down to the cabin quarters to one
of the small cots that are there, essentially, and
tie him down. He's like, "Mmm." He passes out;
he's exhausted.
LAURA: Poor guy!
LIAM: You got a new pet.
SAM: Let's call him--
SAM and MARISHA: Professor Thaddeus!
TALIESIN and MARISHA: The second!
LAURA: What was his actual name?
SAM and LAURA: Gallan.
MATT: G-A-L-L-A-N.
LIAM: Thaddeus Klossowski von Musel.
MARISHA: The second.
MATT: All right. While that's happening, the rest
of you on the surface, where are you taking it?
TRAVIS: Time of day-ish?
MATT: Time of night-ish.
TRAVIS: Oh, shit.
MATT: Yeah, it's maybe 2:30, 3:00 in the morning,
at this point.
TRAVIS: Straight out from shore, full sail. Just
trying to put distance between us and the coast.
MATT: Got you. Okay.
TRAVIS: I know we have time to decide on our
route.
MATT: Yeah. But you just take some distance in
case of pursuit? Got you. It's a pretty quick
ship. You can see why it was used as a messenger
ship. You're used to cargo ships and things that
are used for shipping, so it's nice to have one
that's designed just for speed.
TRAVIS: Ooh, sports car! Where is Marius?
MATT: He's tied to the mast right now.
TRAVIS and MARISHA: Oh, that's right!
MATT: He's fallen asleep as well because he's just
been there while you guys were doing your thing.
No one is paying attention to him, and he's had a
long day. He's like, (snoring).
TRAVIS: Not to put you too at ease, navigating was
never really my thing, either. I'm better than
most, but I do need to decide on where we're
going.
MARISHA: Right.
TRAVIS: If we want to use Marius, we're going to
have to wake his ass up and ask him some questions.
MARISHA: You want me to wake him up?
TRAVIS: Yeah, wake him up.
MARISHA: All right, okay.
TRAVIS: Not-- (stammers)
MARISHA: (impact)
MATT: "Ugh!"
MARISHA: That was gentle, right?
MATT: "What was that all about?"
MARISHA: Good morning.
MATT: "It's still dark."
MARISHA: Don't think that far into it, man. It was
a cool line.
MATT: "Okay. Was that necessary?"
MARISHA: Probably not.
TRAVIS: Yeah, probably not. Listen, we'll let you
go back to your slumber right quick. Where were
you headed with this ship? I assume to meet up
with Avantika, yeah?
MATT: "I wasn't headed anywhere. I was going
to give back their money and send them off on
"their way, and you attacked, and they weren't
going to let me stay behind, I guess."
TRAVIS: Right. But now we've changed your plans,
yes? You're with us?
MATT: "Apparently!"
TRAVIS: And Avantika needs the sphere, correct?
MATT: "Well, I don't have it!"
TRAVIS: No, but I do. Do you know where she is?
I'll reach behind my back and use Minor Image
again and show the sphere.
MATT: Right. "I don't really-- I was just hired to
pass on a letter and wait for some sort of an
"arrival of that, and then it never came, and then
I asked for an extension in case it was just
taking its time to get there. And then, never
showed up. So I had to return the money,
"unfortunately. But you know, I like keeping a
reputation as a reliable messenger."
TRAVIS: Who were you going to give this to?
MATT: "I was going to give it to-- what's his
name, Captain Jawgrasp. Big fella, you cut
"the fuck out of and kicked him off the side of the
docks."
TRAVIS: Right.
MARISHA: How many times have you worked with
Jawgrasp or Avantika in the past?
MATT: "This is the second time."
MARISHA: And what were you doing for them before?
MATT: "Well, before they found me on the side of
the docks here at the wharf and they asked me if I
"knew the quickest way to get this letter up north
to Shadycreek Run."
TRAVIS: Shadycreek Run. Where we were. You
wouldn't happen to know where Jawgrasp called
home, would you? Or where he was heading next?
MATT: "Not a fucking clue, none of my business. I
don't ask questions of those who are, you know, a
"full foot and a half taller than me and can
probably wipe the floor with me. I just nod,
"take my money and do the job. Once again, I
have a reputation." (sniffs)
TRAVIS: Do you feel comfortable on a ship?
MATT: "I feel comfortable all right, you know,
when I can fucking move! Sorry, sorry, I'm just
"a bit grouchy."
TRAVIS: We are kind of limiting him. He's got big
poofy sleeves and everything, he's not going to
swim anywhere.
MARISHA: Well that's his own damn fault he has
poofy sleeves.
TRAVIS: You could rid him of that, I hear sleeves
are...
MARISHA: Fucking bullshit.
MATT: "I paid good money for this shirt. Please
don't do anything--"
MARISHA: (ripping)
(laughter)
MATT: You rip them underneath the ropes as he is
tied to the mast.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: You start tearing them off in chunks. He's
like, "No! No!"
TRAVIS: Hey, welcome to the crew of the-- well,
we'll have to rename this thing. And I'll summon
the falchion and just swipe through the ropes.
MATT: "Ah!" He starts pulling up the scrap of his
sleeves. "Do you have any idea how much I paid for this?"
MARISHA: Throw them overboard.
(laughter)
MATT: "I'm going to remember this."
MARISHA: Yeah, you should.
MATT: He combs his hair over.
MARISHA: It was a pretty fucking dope thing. Okay.
Here is the thing, this reputation you keep
talking about? That you are so deeply concerned
about--
MATT: He pulls a tooth out.
TRAVIS: Oh, pal.
MARISHA: Aw. Can I have it? (laughs) Deflect
missiles!
TRAVIS: That seems unnecessarily adept.
MATT: Roll a d10, see how many-- no.
MARISHA: Why are you so concerned with this
reputation of yours? How long have you been
running around in the criminal underworld is what
I'm saying.
MATT: "Not criminal, I'm not a criminal. I do
business with whoever pays well. I don't ask
"questions, so I don't know if I've done any
crimes."
TRAVIS: I can't tell, I don't know. Is he an innocent
middleman that doesn't know what he's
shipping or is it just--
MARISHA: No, I've met this type. He plays stupid,
that way if people start asking questions you've
got disbelief.
MATT: "Exactly! So if I don't know technically who
I'm involved with and what the larger scale of my
"work is, if anybody starts asking questions, I'm
as dumb as the rest of them. It's got me this far."
MARISHA: Still doesn't mean you're not a criminal
though.
MATT: "That's for the people to decide."
TRAVIS: Listen, what we're going to ask for is
that you be as forthcoming as you possibly can be.
Would you mind walking over to the side of the
ship there, and tell me how far Nicodranas looks
right now?
MATT: He goes over and looks. "Can't see it."
TRAVIS: Yeah. Can't see it, can you? Stuck with
us. So I'm going to need everything that comes out
of your mouth to be the truth.
MATT: "It has been the truth! Why am I lying to
you right now, you've destroyed my shirt, you've
"made me lose a tooth--"
TRAVIS: My goodness, he is very sensitive about
this. I'm just trying to set the tone for the ship.
MATT: "Look, I'm a very anxious fellow. And when
things go ass up-- I'm having a breakdown right now."
TRAVIS: Do me a favor. Go below decks and try and
find us some drink, will you?
MATT: "Okay, sure, fine, I'll do that for you.
Whatever you want."
MARISHA: Take a little walk, we'll continue
talking when you get back.
TRAVIS: Jeez, yeah seriously.
MARISHA: God, I hate him.
MATT: Makes his way below deck and passes by these
guys.
LAURA: Hi!
MATT: "Hi."
TRAVIS: Are they coming up?
MATT: Yeah, they all come out and join you on the
deck.
SAM: We found some crucial information.
TRAVIS: Oh?
LAURA: That guy who I stuck an ax in is actually
still alive.
TRAVIS: No kidding!
LAURA: Yeah, Caduceus saved his life and he's
really nice. He's a pretty nice fellow.
SAM: He's your first mate now. And--
TRAVIS: Ax-head is?
SAM: Yeah, don't worry we took the ax out.
LAURA: Well, Caleb did technically.
SAM: And we have this map that goes to the Swaven
Islands? We heard the name earlier.
MATT and MARISHA: Swavain.
SAM: That's where we'll find Avantika. Who seems
to be some sort of cultist, right?
LAURA: Yes, she's very religious and is interested
in relics.
SAM: I mean, I assume she's a cultist. Maybe she
just is a very nice religious person.
LAURA: Maybe she just likes to collect things.
SAM: Yeah! But he said creepy.
LAURA: He said that they were mysterious and her
whole crew had some sort of magic-y stuff.
TRAVIS: About the sphere.
SAM: He said that they were supposed to collect
this sphere, and if it wasn't available, to go
look for others. How many have you swallowed?
TRAVIS: One.
LAURA: Imagine if you swallow another one, how
powerful would you become?
LIAM: Then you'll have two balls.
MARISHA: Wait, does the ball make you powerful? Is
there something going on?
TRAVIS: I certainly feel like I have gained
abilities, yeah. I don't know though. Is this
where they were headed?
SAM: This is where they were going to head after
they got the ball, yes.
TRAVIS: This is a map to a reef. I know the reefs
of the Lucidian Ocean, this is very familiar.
LAURA: Those are the arrows, are the ping-pong
points that you have to hit and then you get to
the island that you--
TRAVIS: Yeah, well otherwise you wreck the ship.
LIAM: You recognise those specific points there?
TRAVIS: Well, there's the Everplume Reef, there's
the Torrid Reef, but this looks like the Inkclaw Reef?
MATT: Make a-- this would be a survival check,
since this is-- no. For you, make that a history
check with advantage. Since it does fall into your
sailor background.
TRAVIS: (groans) That was less. 11.
MATT: It could be one of three reefs.
MARISHA: The three you just named?
TRAVIS: There are a lot. There're quite a few.
MATT: Yeah. It's a toss up, you're not entirely
sure which one it is. Give me a second. I can
probably narrow it down for you. Give me a second.
TRAVIS: There are a few reefs that protect certain
islands. One of which is the Darktow Isle.
SAM: He said that, Darktow Port.
TRAVIS: You don't want to go there.
LAURA: He said it was bad.
SAM: But he also said it was far away from the one
that Avantika was at.
LAURA: He didn't make it sound like that's the one
that--
SAM: He said it was far away from the one where--
TRAVIS: That would narrow it to two in my mind. If
it's in the Lucidian Ocean. One is far northwest
of the Darktow and one is more straight east by
several hundred miles.
LIAM: We came here for the two of you. What are
you after?
TRAVIS: What am I after? Well I'd like to see-- I
keep saying Avan-teek-a, but it's--
LAURA: Avantika. Who knows, really? It could be
Avan-teek-a.
TRAVIS: I want to know what she wants the sphere
for. I want to know why Vandren had it in the
first place. What else are they looking for? Does
it have a brother, sister sphere? I don't know.
LIAM: Why would we not want to go to this place?
TRAVIS: No, I do! This doesn't look like Darktow
to me. Darktow is more in a U shape. You really
have to go around the whole damn thing to get in
without touching the reef. It's a pain in the ass.
MATT: It could be either Inkclaw or it could be
Deep Row. Those are the two that come to mind.
SAM: Aren't you just a little bit scared that this
person, Avantika, has spent all this time and
resources trying to get these things and you've
got one in you and we're going right towards her.
Isn't that a little scary?
TRAVIS: No, that sounds great to me.
MARISHA: I mean it sounds like she wants this
thing.
SAM: But she might just chop you open and take it.
TRAVIS: You wouldn't let her do that, would you?
LAURA: We'll try not to. I really should sleep if
we're going to do that, though.
TRAVIS: We have plenty of time, it's quite a
distance away. So it could either be the Deep Row
Reef or it could be the Inkclaw Reef.
LAURA: We should really figure it out. I wonder if
in the morning we can ask Gallan about it, maybe
he knows one of those sound familiar.
SAM: Oh yes, yes.
TRAVIS: Fair enough. We'll have plenty of time, I
could-- well, we have to pick one. One's to the
northwest and one's down to the southeast from
where we are now.
SAM: Do we have to pick right now or can we-- oh
wow, those are two different directions (laughs).
LAURA: Well, let me go downstairs and wake him
up.
TRAVIS: If you want-- we do have the stars on our
side so we'll be able to navigate easier. We could
drop sail and--
LIAM: Yeah, north is that way, and I point north.
TRAVIS: Oh, you're going to be so helpful in
this! You're the ship's navigator. I dub thee
The Mist navigator.
SAM: It's the Mistake now. We renamed the ship.
TRAVIS: The what? The Mistake?
SAM and LAURA: The Mistake.
SAM: Or the SS Mistake?
MARISHA: Wait, are you saying the Mis-Steak like a
good filet mignon or like a mistake?
LIAM: Or you could put Zemnian and Common together
and make it the Shit-ake, if it's the Mistake.
SAM: M-Y-S-T-A-K-E? We're all about spelling
things wrong, so maybe we should do that.
TRAVIS: Do I remember if the Deep Row or the
Inkclaw, one is closer than the other?
MATT: The Deep Row is a little bit further away,
that one's more to the west of where you guys are.
There are a number of small islands all throughout
the various reefs that aren't on the larger maps.
And you haven't been all over the coast, these are
all just from the trade routes you've done, and
the things that aren't directly near or you'll pass on
the trade routes-- some things aren't even charted.
TRAVIS: My knowledge is limited to what I've
journeyed through before. The Inkclaw is closer,
we could try there-- at least set course for that
direction. How does that sound?
SAM: You're the captain!
LAURA: Would we get there in two weeks? Because
that's how much food we have.
MARISHA: Oh that's a good point.
MATT: Well, travel-wise this would be-- say we put
this at the speed of a longship, so per day you
could probably do about 72 miles in a longship. It
looks like travel to-- to which reef? To Inkclaw?
It's about 230 or so, 250 miles from Nicodranas.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we could do it.
LIAM: Does someone need to man the ship at night
when most of us are sleeping?
TRAVIS: Yes, if nothing else to look out for other
ships.
LAURA: And sea monsters.
LIAM: Can we do that without any sailing
experience?
MATT: That's the thing. As you consider, and you
know, it takes a number of people to maintain a
ship. To go at the speed you would need to, you'd
need to have somebody who's manning the sails,
somebody who's navigating the ship, somebody who's
actually necessary for maintaining the course--
TRAVIS: I'll tell you what we could do. There's a
joint stop on the trade routes, an island called
Brokenbank, we could make it there. I'm familiar
with how we would get there and we could try and
find some extra hands.
LIAM: How far off?
TRAVIS: Almost one-and-a-half times the distance I
think, --ish.
SAM: Wait, farther?
TRAVIS: Yeah. I've never sailed directly to the
Inkclaw Reef. I just know where it is because I've
seen maps.
LIAM: The other thing we could do is find a place
on the Menagerie Coast a good ways away from where
we departed and some of us could try to find a
crew. Also, we left the cart behind.
LAURA: And my mom and our puppy.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we could return to somewhere else
along the-- Nicodranas or Port Damali.
MARISHA: Maybe we should talk about the whole
Nicodranas thing really fast?
MATT: As you guys are having this moment of
conversation, you can't help but notice in the
middle of this talk, quiet off to the side--
Yasha's just on the outskirts of you, holding onto
the rope of the sail. She hasn't tied it down yet,
she's just using herself to hold and maneuver the
sail because that's all she knows. But there is,
on the far end on the port bow of the ship, is
still Caduceus, legs curled up to the chest
looking out over the ocean.
LAURA: We should definitely talk about it.
TRAVIS: I didn't mean for that to go the way it
did.
MARISHA: I don't think any of us did. Can we return
back to your hometown ever again after that?
LAURA: That is a really good question.
MARISHA: I feel like we might need to drop some--
LAURA: Stealing comes with a pretty hefty fine. So
does killing people.
TRAVIS: Yeah, it's not looking good for us right
now.
MARISHA: Also we have a couple of members of the
Mighty Nein that seem a little bit disparate.
LAURA: I walk over to Caduceus.
MARISHA: I'll join.
LAURA: Um, hello?
TALIESIN: Hey.
LAURA: I sit down cross-legged in front of him.
MARISHA: I maneuver to the other side but sit
leaning up against the ship, out of it, but here.
LIAM: (whispers) Saved by the Bell style.
LAURA: How are you?
TALIESIN: I think it's been a day.
LAURA: It has.
TALIESIN: Miss Jester, do you have a plan?
LAURA: Hmm.. Wow, no. I don't think I ever have
had a plan.
TALIESIN: I did. I do-- I did-- I don't know.
LAURA: What is your plan?
TALIESIN: (sighs) I... had a mission, a holy
purpose, a thing that defined me, and I thought
that I was honoring it, and now-- what if I was
wrong? This is not what I thought it was going to be.
LAURA: What was your mission?
TALIESIN: My home is dying and... I thought this
was what I was supposed to do. I waited for a sign
and I thought you were the sign, and now maybe
there wasn't any sign. Maybe I just left, and I'm
on a ship in an ocean that doesn't want me here.
It's been so quiet, and--
LAURA: Like how? Do you sometimes hear things?
TALIESIN: I always hear things. What if I made a
mistake?
LIAM: I wander over.
LAURA: Well. A lot of times I think that maybe the
Traveler has left me and I think maybe things are
going poorly and he doesn't like me anymore, but
sometimes he'll just show up after a while and
tell me that I was on the right path all along,
and he just made it fun for me to find it again.
TALIESIN: And one day will be the last time; what
then?
LAURA: You're not afraid of death, are you?
TALIESIN: No. Although dying was-- I've been hurt
before and I've-- almost drowning was a lot.
(laugh) That was a lot and the ocean is a lot and
this is a lot.
LAURA: Breathe.
TALIESIN: (deep breathing)
LAURA: The world is a lot bigger than your
cemetery. There are a lot of things for you to
see, and you have to break out of your comfort
zone in order to find the path that you are
looking for.
TALIESIN: I think I needed to hear that.
Breathing's hard. (breathing)
LAURA: Just keep doing that.
TALIESIN: (deep breathing) It smells really weird
in here.
LAURA: You can't smell dead people when you're on
the ocean.
TALIESIN: It's very salty.
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Are you hungry?
LAURA: Yes.
TALIESIN: I'm really hungry.
LAURA: Do you want to make some food? We have a
lot downstairs: two weeks' worth.
TALIESIN: I like cooking. I think I need to cook.
LAURA: Let's go.
TALIESIN: Let's go cook. Really, I feel better, that
was actually really nice. I'm going to go cook.
MARISHA: As they walk away and since Caleb
wandered up-- Do you truly believe the amount of
justification you were just doing for our
actions?
LIAM: What do you mean, that they started it?
MARISHA: Everything we just did. Definitely had a
long string of-- sounded like convincing yourself
and maybe the rest of us and I just wondered how
much you actually believed it, or how much you're
trying to convince yourself that you didn't fuck
up real bad.
LIAM: No, I'm good.
MARISHA: Okay, that's great.
LIAM: Today was not optimal by any means, but we
have helped our friend's mother and she is better
off. The things on the dock did not go great-- no
one would use the word great-- but we did not draw
a blade on them or do anything, they attacked us.
We kept ourselves alive, we kept our friends
alive. I did not expect us to be departing
Jester's hometown quite so quickly, but here we
are. We're all alive, we're helping another one of
our friends. This is not our home.
MARISHA: It's not our home, but does that give us
the right to shit on everyone else's?
LIAM: I would not say that we have shit on
everyone else's.
MARISHA: All right. Okay. I don't know. I'm not
looking for answers--
LIAM: Which part specifically troubles you most?
Is it the fact that the town might be without
power for a little bit?
MARISHA: Eh, people can adapt.
LIAM: They can adapt. They have to adapt. People
have to adapt. And that creature down there, he's
doing better. You can't have a society built on
slavery.
MARISHA: It's just that-- I've done a lot of
shitty things and I've made a lot of shitty
choices and a lot of mistakes, and after Molly, I
told myself that I was going to try and not do
that as much, but it's fucking hard.
LIAM: Well, there were a lot of innocent people in
that death hole and they're alive because of you.
Jester's mother is better off because of you.
Alfield is better because of you-- you have done a
lot of good.
MARISHA: Can we justify murdering six people to
have Jester's mom be a little bit better off?
LIAM: Well, they attacked us.
MARISHA: Okay, yep. They attacked us. And I walk
away.
TRAVIS: I'll call out to Beau as she's walking
off.
MARISHA: Yeah?
TRAVIS: How's it looking down there? Spirits
high?
(laughter)
MARISHA: Uh...
TRAVIS: Okay, no-- I thought I'd ask. How are you
feeling?
MARISHA: Conflicted, I guess.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I don't feel very good.
MARISHA: I don't know. Look, I know we reacted
accordingly and in self-defense, but we probably
could have a been a little bit smarter about that
entire situation.
TRAVIS: It's been a day, right?
MARISHA: It's been a fucking day!
TRAVIS: We were going to talk to Algar, we ended
up killing his bodyguards and setting that thing
free, and then we were going to go and talk to
Marius and then we ended up killing the whole
fucking crew and captain, minus one.
MARISHA: In a part of myself, I'm a little mad
because-- I don't know. Everything that tortle was
telling us about Marius and how he hangs out at
the docks and waits until midnight and I'm like,
(scoffs) "What a random, fun guy, just hanging out
by the docks at mid--" I don't know, everything
about that should have connected in my brain
that--
TRAVIS: Why didn't we just go talk? I feel like
we've abandoned the use of-- here's my thing,
right? Magic's new to me, this sword is new to me.
I didn't have most of this all of my life. All I
had was my words to get out of situations, to try
and heal conflict, to try and outsmart somebody.
Now, all of a sudden, I have this power and I feel
like it's a shortcut and that I've been cheating
myself. I don't feel like I've put forth the same
effort to resolve something because I can just
will something into happening. That doesn't seem
right to me.
MARISHA: In a fucked up way, I can actually relate
to that quite a lot. For me, I've always had my
fists, and, man, is it way easier to solve
problems when you're beating the shit out of
somebody.
TRAVIS: How does Caleb feel about all this?
MARISHA: Like we were justified in our actions.
TRAVIS: Oh, really?
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: I don't know, just doesn't sit right.
How's Caduceus?
MARISHA: Jester had a good talk with him; I think
he'll actually be okay. We might need to do a
little bit more maintenance. I feel bad; I've
treated people like shit my whole life. And having
one transformative moment doesn't mean that you're
immediately going to be a different person
overnight and being better is something you have
to work at, I guess.
TRAVIS: That was actually very profound.
MARISHA: I can understand taking the easy way out
with the power that you have. It's what I've done
my whole life. I just don't know anything else,
though.
TRAVIS: I get that. Maybe we try not to do that. I
check you, you check me. We check the group.
Otherwise, I feel like Caduceus is not going to be
the last person that thinks about--
MARISHA: Walks away from us.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MARISHA: I've driven most people in my life away
from me. Hearing him talk like that, it's not the
first time I've heard those things, and I don't
want to drive you guys away. I don't want us to
drive each other away. (sighs) Anyway.
TRAVIS: We need to decide on a destination,
whether we turn around and-- Were we in the Open
Quay or were we in the Wayfarer's...?
MATT: No, that was in the Wharf.
TRAVIS: We're in the Wharf.
MATT: Yeah, The Restless Wharf.
TRAVIS: The Restless Wharf. We can turn around and
come back to the Open Quay or where the
Wharfmaster was and try and get in and out real
fast with some crew, or we can head to Port
Damali, or we can head out to the open sea, but we
do need to pick a destination.
MARISHA: Is there any damage-- whoever's there! Is
there any damage control we want to consider in
Nicodranas before we fuck off forever?
SAM: Damage control?
LIAM: Well, we can't leave without a crew.
SAM: We can send a letter.
MATT: Which, as a note, you would know there are a
few different positions that probably need to be
filled. There definitely needs to be a captain,
there needs to be a navigator, there needs to be a
quartermaster-- who is essentially the first mate
that is the second in command under the captain
and handles all of the elements there. You're
going to need some form of a cook, someone that
handles and prepares food. You're probably going
to need a bosun.
TRAVIS: Caduceus. Oh, bosun--
MATT: Bosun handles the upkeep on the ropes and
the sails and general deck upkeep.
SAM: Cruise director, bursar, bartender.
MARISHA: Stand-up comic.
SAM: I've seen The Love Boat.
MATT: There is the carpenter below. Carpenter does
ship repairs and upkeep as well. Barrel-keepers
are those that maintain the barrels of supplies.
There's a bunch of different-- you don't need all
of these necessarily--
TRAVIS: We don't have any guns? There's not guns
or powder--
MATT: No, this is made for speed. Not that you've
noticed, at least.
MARISHA: This has turned into a resource
management game.
TALIESIN: I live for that shit.
MARISHA: Lemonade Tycoon!
MATT: You do see Yasha, who's still holding the
rope but staring off to the south.
LIAM: This works out for you, you were going to
get a boat.
MATT: "That's fine, I guess."
LIAM: Know where you want to go?
MATT: She looks back at you and back at the south
and says, "Just looking for a storm."
MARISHA: Oh.
SAM: Fjord, should we have a quick ship's
meeting?
TRAVIS: Yes.
SAM: Okay, crew meeting, everyone!
MATT: You guys, at this point, have gone down and
you've been introduced to the wonders of hardtack!
Which is a lot of, essentially, hefty crackers.
Shitty, shitty crackers.
TALIESIN: I've got plans.
MATT: You do find a couple of barrels of fresh,
tropical fruit, which is new for you, Caduceus,
especially. Short-term travel elements there.
LAURA: That's good for scurvy.
TALIESIN: How well stocked is this kitchen? Is it
stocked at all?
MATT: It's stocked at the necessary level for a
two-week journey.
TALIESIN: Okay, I've got the stuff in my set as
well so I'm going to just--
MATT: Oh yeah, you have everything on you to
create and evoke all sorts of unique flavors.
TALIESIN: We're doing some shit. This is on.
MATT: Are you calling everybody from the crew
together? You are in the process of planning it
out and you're taking stock of everything you have
at your disposal and you hear Fjord up top calling
you guys.
TALIESIN: You know that spicy fruit you can buy on
the side of the road? We're doing spicy fruit.
LAURA: That sounds so lovely!
TALIESIN: That sounds so good right now. I'm
genuinely fiending for it.
LAURA: Should we go up for the meeting and then
come back down?
TALIESIN: I think we can bring the bowls up. It
doesn't take that long.
LAURA: Oh sweet! We'll bring up and give people
food while we have our meeting.
SAM: All right.
TALIESIN: There's bowls. Mine, mine, mine.
SAM: Thank you.
LIAM: These crackers are terrible.
LAURA: Spicy fruit! It's spicy fruit.
LIAM: That's why it's a bad cracker.
TRAVIS: Caduceus, thank you for making all this.
We need to decide on a destination. We're going to
need more hands that are able to figure out where
we are going next.
SAM: To get more hands, we could either go back to
the place that we exploded and murdered.
TRAVIS: Not those docks. We could go to a separate
landing site.
SAM: And risk being spotted by the coast guard.
LAURA: Super disguised.
LIAM: Who here cannot change their appearance?
You? That's it.
SAM: We can't change the boat's appearance.
MATT: Yasha is listening out of the corner of her
ear and raises her hand and looks back.
LIAM: Okay. You've got the boat.
SAM: Or we could go further to--
TRAVIS: Port Damali.
SAM: Port Damali, or some other place on the coast
that I don't know. Or this other place, this
island that's like 300 miles away.
LAURA: Port Damali's all the way up at the top. We
could just stop at the next city up.
SAM: What's the next city up?
MATT: Next city up would be Port Zoon.
LAURA: Port Zoon.
MATT: That's about a three-day travel to get
there.
LAURA: That is a lot of time, though, to get
LIAM: We would be exhausted.
TRAVIS: We could turn around and try to go to
the-- Where was the wharfmaster? The dwarf. Ingus?
MATT: I think it was Ignus.
TRAVIS: Ignus.
LAURA: Are we seriously considering bringing the
ship right back to Nicodranas?
TRAVIS: It's a different section of the city.
SAM: Do we have a lifeboat or any sort of buoy or
anything?
MARISHA: Yes, lifeboat. Is there a--
MATT: There's not a lifeboat, per se. There is a
small row skiff.
LIAM: What about pulling into a cove outside of
the city a couple of miles and walking in?
MARISHA: Or we could just leave the boat out in
the ocean a little bit and take the skiff in.
SAM: Are we hiring a crew? Are we kidnapping a
crew?
TRAVIS: Hiring a crew.
SAM: Do we have enough money?
TRAVIS: Fuck. I don't know.
MATT: You've not hired a crew before. You just
know what you've worked for which is not a lot.
LAURA: How much did you make when you were--
TRAVIS: Not a ton.
MATT: It's maybe, depending on the job, two, three
gold a day.
MARISHA and SAM: Okay.
SAM: We have enough gold.
TRAVIS: Our quickest bet is just to turn back
into-- What area was the wharfmaster Ignus in?
MATT: Ignus was in the Restless Wharf.
TRAVIS: It was the Restless Wharf.
LAURA: I guess I could maybe-- can I try to cast
Mending on the sail and see if it looks like the
burn damage goes away?
MATT: Yeah. I'll say you can slowly, over time
focus-- It'll take you about a good hour or so,
but you could eventually get the sail to be
unsinged.
LAURA: Maybe I can paint something on the sail so
it looks like a different boat.
SAM: Ooh yes.
LIAM: We can either pull the name off of the boat
or alter it.
MARISHA and LIAM: The Mistake.
MARISHA: Super into it.
LIAM: I am, too.
MARISHA: I have a thought. There was something we
used to do and sometimes I'd get hired to do in my
town. A little bit of subterfuge. If we wanted to
try and--
TRAVIS: That's gone real well for us in the past
24 hours, but go ahead.
MARISHA: Well, this one's a little bit more under
the surface.
LIAM: Quiet subterfuge instead of loud subterfuge
which is what we've been doing.
MARISHA: In fact, quiet is the key. We used to do
little whisper campaigns.
SAM: How so?
MARISHA: Just going into bars, pubs. Start talking
a little bit loudly about the pirate crew and
Captain Jawgrasp and the hell that he unleashed on
the docks the other night.
SAM: Oh. Disparage the dead's name so that when
people--
MARISHA: Fuck it, he's dead. Yeah.
SAM: And then when anyone finds out that we did
it they'll be like, "Good for them for killing those
"bastards," right?
MARISHA: I don't even think we'd throw our name in
the mix.
LAURA: We don't ever mention ourselves.
MARISHA: Never mention ourselves, just--
LIAM: Maybe the crew turned on their captain and
killed him on the docks and fled with his ship, ja.
MARISHA: Build a narrative. Start talking just a
little bit louder than what you should in public.
Maybe whispering to some bartenders.
SAM: Seems like it would take days.
TRAVIS: Yeah, could you do this in a night?
MARISHA: Well, my thought was if we split up a
little bit, you guys focus on hiring a crew,
someone else focus on spreading some words.
LAURA: We could just sleep before all this stuff
happens because damn!
TRAVIS: Sure. Although the more time that passes,
the longer word has to spread.
LAURA: It probably has already spread.
SAM: Well, it's the middle of the night now, so
it's not going to spread till morning. Right?
MATT: It's about this point you look over in the
horizon and you can see the faint hint of dark
blue turning to lighter blue.
LAURA: Can we just sleep? I'm so tired.
SAM: Let's take a nap. We'll just coast here. Can
we coast? Do we have an anchor? Can we anchor?
TRAVIS: We're a little deep for an anchor.
SAM: Can we just do doughnuts?
LAURA: Can we go to sleep even if we're just
sailing around?
TRAVIS: Sure. Let's go in circles. 12 miles off
coast, we'll just go in circles.
LIAM: Fjord, can the boat just be adrift if a
couple of us stay up in shifts to make sure that
there are no enemies?
TRAVIS: In shifts, you can navigate in a pattern,
yeah.
MARISHA: Can we slowly in shifts navigate towards
a cove?
LIAM: None of us know how to steer this thing
except for Fjord.
MARISHA: Fuck me.
LIAM: I think we just need to cool it.
MATT: You can very faintly see towards the horizon
where Nicodranas is, the occasional little soft
light of the lighthouse. You're not completely out
of sight of it and when it's this dark and you pay
attention, you can just barely see that little
blip of light.
LAURA: They're going to see us.
SAM: We don't have any light on here.
MATT: Yeah, there's no light on the ship.
LAURA: They'll see us when it gets lighter.
SAM: We're fine.
LAURA: I'm going to go sleep, okay bye.
SAM: The plan is we're going to find a cove and
hide the ship, sneak in, get some crew, sneak
back. Or, we're just going to sail right into a
different port also in Nicodranas? Grab a crew
while we start a whisper campaign, and bolt?
TRAVIS: Yes. I don't know. Either one of those is
fine.
MARISHA: Sounds insane.
TRAVIS: Yeah. I vote for sailing up outside of the
wharfmaster area, taking a little skiff in, just
getting some crew and getting the fuck out of
here.
MARISHA: We can always pull in the ship really
fast to load on the crew and then peace out?
TRAVIS: I'd keep the ship out of there just in
case the Zello, the Jello.
MATT: Zhelezo.
TRAVIS: Zhelezo have come up and said (exaggerated
accent) "There was a ship and the Fireball
"detonated on the side of it and ours has a bunch
of burn damage."
LIAM: Why are you talking so funny?
TRAVIS: I don't-- The splinters are in my
forehead.
MARISHA: Let's sleep. So tired.
LIAM: Sit up with me for a little bit. We'll take
the first shift.
SAM: Are you talking to me or--
LIAM: You. Nott the Brave.
LAURA and TALIESIN: Good night.
MATT: All right. You guys take shifts throughout
the evening. To the early elements of the morning.
LIAM: Yeah, late morning. Can I just take a moment
with my goblin friend while they're sleeping?
MATT: Sure.
LIAM: Come here, look. I want to show you
something.
SAM: What?
LIAM: You want a piggyback?
SAM: Yes.
LIAM: Skitter up.
SAM: (skittering)
LIAM: You see the sun is coming up, but you can
still see one or two up there. You see that one?
SAM: The stars?
LIAM: That's a planet, that one. That's another
place.
SAM: No, we're on the planet.
MARISHA: (laughs) Yes.
LIAM: Today was a major clusterfuck. Everything
went wrong. We did all the wrong things.
SAM: It didn't feel very good, did it?
LIAM: No. But do you know what worries me more is
the feelings I'm getting from everyone in the
crew. They're a little despondent. All of them.
SAM: What do we do about that?
LIAM: I know that it didn't go very well, but,
this is our new family, right? We want the family
to stick together. I think we need to-- oh you're
over here. I think we need to lead by example.
SAM: You mean just laugh extra hard and pretend
like we're having a great time?
LIAM: Keep their morale up, I think, is all I
mean. We have done good things, I know that the
day was-- it was a day. But we want this to keep
going.
SAM: Yes.
LIAM: We care for these people, ja?
SAM: Absolutely. And we want to stay together, and
if they're thinking that this is not working out,
we have to do something to change that. I don't
know about going in and starting to lie to a bunch
of people. Is that going to make them--
LIAM: We definitely need to think more than just
wing it, you know? This group, we get under each
others' skin, and we all egg each other on and we
like to wing it, so maybe we need to slow things
down. But I am serious, the thing that I am
worried most is they feel like it's fracturing,
and we cannot let that happen.
SAM: All right. I'll start thinking about what we
can do.
LIAM: Also, are you mad about the swimming thing?
SAM: Oh, no, you did what you had to do! I needed
to be with the group, otherwise I would've been
stranded there alone, and that wouldn't have been
good. Next time, you can just tell me, though.
LIAM: Tell you when I'm going to mess with your
head a little bit?
SAM: Yeah, it's all right. I need it.
LIAM: I thought it would help.
SAM: It did, temporarily. I'm still very scared of
the water, and I like being on the boat, but
getting off is going to be a trick. But it's all
right. Yeah. Yeah, we're cool. It's just these
other people that're all messed up.
LIAM: (whispering) They're losing their cool.
SAM: I know. We'll keep them together. If all else
fails, fake a heart attack. Everyone will go to
your aid, and then when they save you, we'll be
like, "Yeah, we saved him, yeah!"
LIAM: I don't know if you're joking or not, but
I'm going to do it.
SAM: Okay, good.
LIAM: And there really is another world.
SAM: No, we're on the world.
LIAM: Fine.
MATT: Nott is a One Earther. All right, you guys
keeping first watch, make a perception check.
Whoever's maintaining that, either advantage or
you both roll independently.
SAM and LIAM: Independently.
SAM: 14.
LIAM: It's a perception? 22.
MATT: Keeping an eye out, you begin to watch as
multiple ships begin to cruise out from
Nicodranas. At first you begin to get nervous, but
watching them, you can see it's the early morning.
Right as dawn hits, a lot of these fisherman ships
start going out and finding sections where lots of
schools tend to come to feed. Beyond that, you
don't see any encroaching danger.
SAM: Are there any distinct flags or colors
hanging from our rigging?
MATT: You have sails. There is a flag that sits at the
top of the main mast, but it is currently tied up.
SAM: Okay. Can I skitter up there and see what it
is if it were to unfurl?
MATT: It's big, so you'd have to unfurl to see
it.
SAM: Can I pull it down? Is there a thing?
MATT: Yeah, you can bring it down. You bring the
flag down and open it up, and it's a light gray
flag that looks almost like a curled wave. It
looks like a wave of water that curls away. That's
the best you can ascertain as to what the design
means.
SAM: We'll ask Fjord about it when he wakes up.
MATT: You guys finish your shift. Who's taking
next shift?
TRAVIS: I'll go second.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: On the crossover: Does this mean anything to
you?
MATT: It does not.
TRAVIS: It does not.
SAM: Maybe we should change it. On the next
crossover, tell Jester to paint it.
TRAVIS: It's going to be a giant dick and balls if
we do.
SAM: That's fine.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: Who's taking next shift? It's Fjord, and
just Fjord? Fjord and Caduceus out there for
second shift.
TRAVIS: How you doing?
TALIESIN: I think I'm embracing the chaos.
TRAVIS: Oh. Yeah, that's a good way to deal.
TALIESIN: Do you have a plan?
TRAVIS: A plan?
MARISHA: You're asking everyone. Oh no.
TRAVIS: I have a series of expectations, but I
wouldn't call it a plan.
TALIESIN: I don't get it, but okay.
TRAVIS: I'm in pursuit of something, and I know what
maybe the next couple of steps are, but past that--
TALIESIN: That's an answer. That'll do. Yesterday
was-- oh god, what's the word?
TRAVIS: Heavy?
TALIESIN: Heavy. Heavy's good. Yeah.
TRAVIS: I take it you haven't seen much combat.
TALIESIN: Well, I've fought animals, a few
bandits.
TRAVIS: You ever fought a giant water genie?
TALIESIN: No. No, that was a first.
TRAVIS: Me neither. Never even seen one before.
TALIESIN: Is life always this directionless?
TRAVIS: Yeah. Well, yeah, my new life, pretty
much, yeah. It's open.
TALIESIN: The one with the hair, I think she's
going to take off again.
TRAVIS: Yasha.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
TRAVIS: What makes you say that?
TALIESIN: Oh, you know how it is. Some rocks don't
sit right.
TRAVIS: Yeah. Do you naturally have the ability to
feel that out of people?
TALIESIN: I mean, yeah?
TRAVIS: It's very insightful.
TALIESIN: Well, my job for most of my life was to
talk to people. Well, it wasn't to talk to people;
it was to listen to people. I've listened to a lot
of people.
TRAVIS: For your job?
TALIESIN: Yeah. It's a graveyard. People come and
they talk. A lot.
TRAVIS: When they're grieving?
TALIESIN: Yeah, and you listen a lot. I don't know
much, but I know people. And I know things that
aren't people. There's a lot more, apparently.
TRAVIS: You seem to pick up on the stuff that's
not said?
TALIESIN: You have to. I like that you're looking
for something. That's good.
TRAVIS: Otherwise, I don't really know what I'd be
doing.
TALIESIN: Well, I hope we find it, because then
you'd get to figure out what to do next, and then
there'll be two of us who would be wondering.
TRAVIS: Fair enough. Okay.
TALIESIN: I'm definitely looking out on the ocean
to see if--
MATT: Yeah, perception check from each of you?
TRAVIS: I'll give you advantage.
TALIESIN: I'll do the double, yeah. Yeah, that's
not bad. 21.
MATT: Keeping an eye out on this as well, you,
towards the end of your shift, notice one ship
that isn't one of the fishermen ships or one of
the traders' ships that you've seen in the docks
and pointed out to you. It is one of the Zhelezo
search ships. It's not leaving too far from the
docks, but it's at least patrolling around the
outskirts.
TALIESIN: Is that a sign that maybe we should
really leave?
TRAVIS: I think we'll expand our travel pattern to
skate out wider.
TALIESIN: Sometimes it's worth owning a mistake,
and I think yesterday was a big mistake.
TRAVIS: We don't necessarily want to own that
here; they are very stern about mistakes.
TALIESIN: Well, by owning it, I mean stop trying
to necessarily fix it, and let it be a mistake.
TRAVIS: I agree with that.
TALIESIN: And maybe just--
TRAVIS: Move on?
TALIESIN: Admit that there might be no fixing
this.
TRAVIS: I think that's wise.
MATT: The ship does have a wide berth. It's only
one ship that's going across the entire coast
there, but that's one thing you've noticed. It's a
danger.
TALIESIN: Going to have some thoughts about that
flag, too, but that's for tomorrow.
MATT: Okay. You guys finish your time at watch.
The rest of you come to consciousness. It's now
late morning, going to be approaching the
afternoon fairly soon, but you've woken up, some
food has been devoured, your cabin mate, Gallan,
has come to consciousness, and has instinctually
gone to start looking at the side of the boat and
starting to repair bits of the Fireball damage you
had left. Pulls out his tools, starts going to
work on that.
LIAM: That was good work.
LAURA: Found a carpenter!
MATT: Marius is choking through some hardtack.
What do you guys want to do?
SAM: We're going back? Find a cove?
TRAVIS: We'll make our way up to the docks where the
wharfmaster is, which is a separate docks from where--
SAM: It's the same city, right?
MATT: Same city. The Restless Wharf and the Open
Quay are two large sections of docks on the north end.
TRAVIS: Remember it took a while to walk from one
to the other. And we're only taking the skiff in.
LAURA: Plus it was dark when we left, and nobody
saw the--
TRAVIS: And only people that don't look like us
can take the skiff in to get the crew that we're
going to look for.
LIAM: I don't know, couldn't the name of this boat
be on a ledger or something somewhere?
TRAVIS: What, The Mistake?
LAURA: Good thing we changed it to The Mistake.
MATT: You do know that when ships check into
port-- you have not been in charge of it, but
you've seen it-- usually there is a ledger of
ownership or deed of ownership to the ship that
the captain presents to the wharfmaster so that
they can keep tabs on who comes in and comes out.
SAM: Do we have one on this ship?
MARISHA: Not for the Mistake.
MATT: It got burned.
LAURA: (singing) Guess what I can do! I can make
things!
SAM: If you've seen one before!
LAURA: Fjord can tell me what they look like.
TRAVIS: Can I?
MATT: You can probably get the gist of it. Let's
give it a shot. You can certainly try.
TRAVIS: Okay, let's try to forge a pink slip for
the Mistake.
LAURA: To Fjordie?
LIAM: But also, "The Mist" is printed on the side
of the boat. We have not changed that, have we?
SAM: We've got to chip that off. Carpenter! First
Mate!
MATT: "Yeah?"
SAM: Hold your carpentry duties for now and go
change the name of the ship.
MATT: "Okay. To what?"
SAM: The Mistake! No one will know.
MATT: "Great."
SAM: In a different font.
MATT: "I would love to help you, little goblin
girl. However, I can't really write or read."
LAURA: Is it painted on or is it chipped on?
MATT: It's painted on.
LAURA: I can do that!
LIAM: You're an artist.
SAM: Back to your duties, please!
MATT: "Right." He goes back to repairs.
TALIESIN: Is the flag going to be a problem?
LAURA: Well, we don't have to unfurl it.
TALIESIN: But will they know what the flag looks
like? Will that be part of the information that
exists about the ship?
TRAVIS: I am an actor in real life, you should
probably ask Matt.
TALIESIN: Which is why I'm asking you and hoping
you make eye contact with the game--
MATT: As far as you know, they don't check the
sails. The sails are designed to show allegiance
to certain areas. If, for whatever reason, the
ship was searched and a sail was found that
perhaps was known to be not kosher with the laws
of the coast, then that would be a problem. But
that's only if the sail itself is--
TALIESIN: But the flag, is it possible someone
might recognize the flag?
MATT: It's possible. You probably wouldn't want to
go into port with the flag unfurled.
TRAVIS: They don't even have to board us, because
we're going to stay out in the river. We're just
taking the skiff in.
MARISHA: Maybe burn the flag?
TALIESIN: I could dye it.
MARISHA: Ooh.
TRAVIS: How about we get into the docks first so
we can get some crew?
LAURA: Okay. I'll rewrite the name, at least, on
the side of the ship.
MATT: Okay. In order to do so, you'll have to
dangle from the actual stern of the ship.
LAURA: Yasha, hold my ankles!
MATT: Yasha looks confused. "Okay, I guess," and
turns you over and holds you off the side. (straining)
Yasha's even having to wedge against the side because
to get you further enough down, it's about ten feet
from the stern, so Yasha's having to get her foot
caught up underneath the railing.
SAM: Keep doing this motion.
MATT: Jeez.
LAURA: I'm holding paint!
SAM: Oh, this is the paint can upside-down...
LAURA: Yes!
SAM: And you're dipping?
LAURA: I'm dipping because I'm hanging
upside-down!
MATT: GIF of the week, right there. You manage to
write in a really extravagant, well practiced,
Jester way, "The Mistake" on the back of the ship.
Yasha lifts you back on board. Any other
preparations you guys want to do?
LAURA: We should disguise ourselves.
SAM: Should we leave anyone on the ship?
MARISHA: Jester, you have a disguise kit, right?
LAURA: I do.
MARISHA: Would you do my makeup for me? Could you
disguise me?
LAURA: Of course! Yes, of course I can.
SAM: Do we need to leave someone on the ship?
TRAVIS: I should probably stay on the ship.
SAM: No! You're the charmer! I'll stay on the
ship.
MATT: Yasha goes, "I'll stay."
LAURA: Yasha's going to stay on the ship.
TRAVIS: Do you know how to move the ship if you
need to all of a sudden?
MATT: "No."
TRAVIS: Then I'll stay on the ship. You guys go
on, take a big bunch of money, go get the crew.
What is the argument to that?
SAM: How am I going to go convince crew to work
for us?
TRAVIS: You're not.
SAM: Then what am I supposed to-- I have no job
out there!
MARISHA: (whispering) Whisper campaign.
SAM: I can do that!
TALIESIN: This is going to go so poorly.
SAM: Who's going to hire a crew? We don't even
know the parts of the boat that we need to fill!
You have to come with us!
TRAVIS: I'll write a list.
SAM: No, Yasha stays with our First Mate,
Gallan--
TRAVIS: Listen, last time the only guy who could
move the ship was below deck! I'm not leaving my
wingman! I'm not making this mistake a second
time!
SAM: If Yasha has to move the ship, she might as
well abandon it. There's nothing she can do! She's
not going to outrun a naval vessel!
TRAVIS: No, I'm staying on the ship.
SAM: What are you going to do? You're one man!
You're going to sail the ship away?!
TRAVIS: Yeah, you'll stay with me, I'll make you
the little lackey that moves shit.
SAM: (sputtering, sighs)
TRAVIS: I'll keep Marius and I'll keep Gallan.
SAM: I don't like this.
LIAM: How close to the shore do we get with the
ship? The ship proper.
TRAVIS: I don't know. A quarter mile off the
coast? A couple hundred yards? I don't know, how
close do you get to the ship if you want to take
the skiff in?
MATT: You'd have to get fairly close to even drop
anchor, and you don't want to have to row--
LIAM: You picked a sailor, man.
TRAVIS: I know, I wished I'd picked an astronaut.
Then I wouldn't be fucked.
(laughter)
MATT: The strangest of Wildemount backgrounds. You
have to get pretty close unless you want somebody
to be rowing that boat for a long time.
TRAVIS: Which I do, because I want to punish
them.
MATT: Honesty, I appreciate that.
TRAVIS: 150 yards.
MATT: Okay. This'll be interesting. You're helming
the ship?
TRAVIS: Based off the last game, right?
SAM: What will you be able to do by staying on the
ship? If another vessel--
TRAVIS: What if a Zhelezo ship comes around and
arrests Yasha? We can at least get--
SAM: No, if you're on the ship and a Zhelezo boat
comes out--
TRAVIS: We drop sail, we take off and I leave you
guys in the cove.
SAM: With one person?!
TRAVIS: Yep.
MATT: Okay, as you're making your way towards
Nicodranas having this conversation, the Zhelezo
ship is doing its patrol across. You have to time
the best way to come through without gaining its
attention. Who wants to be in charge of trying to
navigate the ship?
SAM: You, you're the sailor.
MATT: That would be you, I think, Fjord. Make an
intelligence check and I'll give you advantage,
because you have a sailor background and you
understand some of the pathways, especially since
watching and noticing this earlier with Caduceus,
you've seen it move back and forth.
TRAVIS: 16.
MATT: The Zhelezo ship passes by and it begins to
inspect another ship that is coming in from the
western trade route.
LAURA: Should I draw up the deed?
MATT: Okay, you want to make a forgery of it?
LAURA: Should I be? Okay, I'm doing that as we're
going in and stuff.
TRAVIS: This is very complicated.
MATT: As you're watching this, you're also helping
tell Jester what you think might be included in
the paper that you've not really seen. Make--
TRAVIS: I have not really seen?
LAURA: I thought you said you had?
MATT: You've seen the papers, but you haven't
studied very heavily what is contained on these.
TRAVIS: What would the point be? Because the
wharfmaster, that's all he looks at.
SAM: Do it in a different language! What other
languages do you speak?
LAURA: Oh good question. I speak Infernal.
SAM: A hell boat?! Is that really the only other
language you speak is Infernal?
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: What are you?
MATT: She's a tiefling. If you'd like to make a
forgery check.
TRAVIS: I'm open to all fucking suggestions. I
just wanted to park a boat and go get some crew.
MATT: Roll a d20 and add your intelligence
modifier and your proficiency, because you are
proficient with forgery.
LAURA: I hate that it's intelligence.
TALIESIN: That's an impressive roll.
LAURA: 20.
MATT: Holy shit! Okay, you craft what is probably
the most evenly-constructed and in some ways
beautiful deeds to a ship. It has borders on it,
the signature that's on there looks very formal
and probably from some naval captain.
TALIESIN: And yet somehow there's a dick in the
signature.
MATT: Yeah, it's subtle.
TRAVIS: The filigree on the borders. There's
little nut sack.
MATT: You're not sure what the content would
require, but you've seen a few formal documents in
passing, and you make it up as you go and you hope
it's enough. You're proud of it, but you hope it's enough.
LAURA: This is really pretty.
SAM: Don't forget to spray it with perfume.
LAURA: Oh, right. A little lavender oil right in
the corner.
MATT: Okay. Are you taking it in to dock, or are
you waiting outside and taking the skiff in?
LAURA: We should take it to the dock.
MATT: It's up to you.
SAM and LAURA: That way we have you.
TRAVIS: Let's take it into dock. Against all the
advice of zhelezo looking for a burned ship that
had a Fireball.
LAURA: It doesn't look burned anymore, does it?
LIAM: Jester has fixed the sail.
MATT: The sail's been fixed.
TRAVIS: Blackened, charred wood on the outside of
it in a sphere shape.
MARISHA: I thought we fixed-- did we fix that? Did
we fix the black sphere?
MATT: The wood is being repaired, but it's a few
days of repair to get all that taken care of.
LIAM: Also the Fireball went off the side of the
ship, so the edge of the ship would be burned.
TRAVIS: I like it. Let's go into the dock. I love
this plan.
MARISHA: We always make these plans and then
abandon them.
MATT: That's D&D, man. That's how it works.
SAM: No, let's take the skiff in. If you want to
take the skiff, we can take the skiff.
TRAVIS: Nope, this is an adventuring party. Let's
go into the dock.
MATT: Okay. Restless Wharf or the Open Quay?
TRAVIS: The one that we were not just killing
people at.
MATT: Open Quay, okay. You make your way towards
the Open Quay. Thankfully, you timed it so that
the one patrolling Zhelezo ship that you see is
currently invested in another ship that it's
interfacing with. You make your way to the Open
Quay. You make it to the docks.
LAURA: Disguise Self as we get closer.
MATT: All of you that are on there, and you're
applying a disguise kit to Beau? If you wouldn't
mind rolling a d20, add your dexterity modifier
and your proficiency modifier.
TRAVIS: We will tell Marius and Gallan to stay
below the entire time.
MARISHA: Good call.
TRAVIS: And Yasha.
LAURA: 18 plus three.
SAM: Yasha's staying on the boat with--?
MATT: Yeah, Yasha's staying below and keeping an
eye on the rest of your crew. With that, you're
approached at the docks. The dockmaster there
takes your document, is going to inspect it and
rolled pretty well, but you rolled a 20. He looks
and seems to be taken aback at how well designed
versus the occasional chicken scratch and heavily
stained, ocean air-tattered pieces of paper are
handed to him. Seems to accept it and you guys
make your way onto the Open Quay docks. You're
there, you drop anchor. What do you wish to do
while you're here?
MARISHA: I hand off 20 gold to Caleb. Here. Here's
for hiring crew.
LIAM: Okay.
SAM: Are there any-- yes?
MARISHA: You're with me on the whisper campaign?
SAM: I am the whisper campaign.
MARISHA: That's what I'm talking about.
SAM: But wait. Before we go, is there anyone
walking about the docks? You know, like dockhands?
MATT: Oh plenty.
SAM: Okay. Should we buy anyone off to be like,
"This ship's fine, we checked it."
LAURA: To say that we've been here awhile or
something?
SAM: Yeah, or if anyone comes asking they're like,
"Oh yeah, these guys just came in from, I don't
"know, Marquet or something."
MATT: If anybody that would be the dockmaster.
LIAM: The dockmaster is the one person who's in
charge of the whole area.
TRAVIS: The wharfmaster Ignus.
MATT: Well, that's in the other side. That's up at
the Restless Wharf.
SAM: The guy we just gave the papers to?
MATT: Yes.
SAM: Go bribe him!
LAURA: Give him five gold.
SAM: Ten gold. Do it!
TRAVIS: You want me to do it?
SAM: Yeah, you're the sailor guy! This is your
whole episode!
TRAVIS: Sure, I'll go find that guy with five
gold.
MATT: Okay, you approach. This is a human fellow,
lanky with a very pronounced Adam's apple and a
cleft chin. Big sideburns and this mop of
reddish-brown hair, a thick sweater on that
bunches up around the neck. He turns back as you
approach. "Hi, can I help you?"
TRAVIS: Yes. We're trying to get in and out of
port as fast as we can looking to acquire a few
crew members. Would you do me a favor though?
I'll produce the five gold and say: Would you mind
telling any inquiring minds that we've been here
for awhile and that we're coming from--
MATT: "You're on The Mistake?"
TRAVIS: The Mistake, that's correct, yes, and we
are coming over from-- what was the port in
between Port Damali and this one?
MATT: Well there's two, but Port Zoon's the
closest.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we're out of Port Zoon and we're
just trying to get there and back in the same
day if we can.
MATT: Make a deception check.
TRAVIS: 15.
MATT: He gives you a nod and goes to shake your
hand and goes, "Understood." Slips the coin into
his hand. "All right, in and out real quick." Take the
paper, folds it and hands it back to you.
TRAVIS: Is there a posting for people looking for
crew positions? A sign?
MATT: "For that you're probably going to look
outside of the Seafloor's Bounty or probably on
"the board at the Withered Bird Inn."
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: Seafloor's Bounty or the Withered Bird Inn.
TALIESIN: Nothing like a bar with "withered" in the
name.
LAURA: Yeah, right?
MATT: Welcome to the Open Quay. What are you guys
doing while you're here?
LAURA: Hiring crew and we're going to get some
food for the thing.
TALIESIN: We're going to need food and supplies,
so anything that you think that we might need,
I'll go pick that up.
TRAVIS: I'll tell them the amount of supplies that
I think they need to pick up for a month's worth
of travel.
MATT: Okay. That'd be a lot of additional rope,
some repair materials for the ship, maybe an
additional set of tools, a couple of empty
barrels, just in case you need them. Actually
quite a few barrels if you're going to be buying a
lot more food, because right now, since they had
stocked up with what they had felt they needed
just for their crew and the short trip they were
making their way there, if you're stocking up for
a while, you're going to need more means of
transport and storage.
LAURA: Okay, I've disguised myself to look like an
old, grizzled sailor.
MATT: Perfect. Okay. It takes you a few hours, but
you gather the materials that are needed. The total
MATT: cost for all of the materials together, for
all of you-- is it food for a month as well?
TALIESIN: I'll even go so far as to say good food
for a month. I'm going to bake some shit. Fuck it.
I also know that I can create food if I have to,
so I can do a lot of, like, base--
MATT: For a month, that's going to be about, I'd
say 300 gold.
TALIESIN: I do not have 300 gold.
MATT: If it's good food, for all of you guys and
the people that you're hiring on the crew, to feed
all of you, every day, for a month?
LIAM: How about mac 'n' cheese?
TALIESIN: What's adequate food?
MATT: Adequate food will put you at about 100
gold.
LAURA: Well, let's do that. I'll do 50 gold and
you do 50 gold.
TALIESIN: I'll do 50 gold, plus I'll up my spice
to make do.
MATT: Okay. It's still better food than most
sailors have on long trips for that cost. That's
for you and the entire crew you're hiring and the
two you have on your ship, for a month. Okay, so
you acquire that bit.
LIAM: I would say that I look like a somewhat plump,
good, Zemnian boy, blond, and a little rounder.
MATT: Ach, ein Zemnian boy!
LIAM: Ja, a little bit!
SAM: Augustus Gloop!
MATT: Augustus Gloop, exactly!
LIAM: Don't make me run, I'm full of chocolates! I
saw Fjord talking to the wharfmaster, so I will
wait until Fjord is finished, and then I will go
up and talk to him as well.
MATT: Okay, cool.
LIAM: Excuse me, we have been doing very well on
our travels at sea, and we are looking to share
the duties and want to hire a bigger crew. I know
there's many docks around here, but why wouldn't I
start here, of course. Do you know-- is this a
good place, is there anyone who's looking for work
right now? We're going on a journey, oh, you know,
three or four or five or six weeks, perhaps.
One-time job.
MATT: Glances at you, glances at you, glances
back. "Yeah, if you're looking to hire, you'll
"find most of them at either the posting at the
Seafloor's Bounty, or the Withered Bird Inn."
LIAM: Oh, I'm so sorry, did you cover that
already?
MATT: "Yes, but now both of you are informed."
LIAM: Excellent.
MATT: "So good luck."
SAM: I come wandering up.
(laughter)
SAM: (shouting) We need a crew!
MATT: Ugh!
SAM: I look like Cap'n Crunch, by the way.
(laughter)
SAM: All right. We know what we're doing, right?
LIAM: For real though, like a real-world Cap'n
Crunch?
SAM: Yeah, short, hat, white moustache.
MATT: I'm so happy this campaign you guys have a
mostly deceptive, illusory-based party. This
really makes for a lot of shenanigans You guys
start looking for a crew to hire. How many crew
are you looking to hire?
TRAVIS: Seven. No, six. Crew of six.
MATT: Crew of six. You have two with you already.
LAURA: Yeah, and you can be the captain.
LIAM: Carpenter, captain, so we need a boatswain.
TRAVIS: We need a boatswain. Well, we've got the
cook. We need a quartermaster, we need a
navigator, and a captain. If we don't need a cook
or a carpenter--
LIAM: What came between boatswain and navigator?
MATT: A barrel keeper.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: You've worked as a boatswain before. That's
primarily what you've done, as well as some
element of barrel keeping in your travels. Those
are primarily what your skills would fall under.
TRAVIS: Sweet. Let's call it a crew of five.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: Captain, navigator, quartermaster, cook,
and another boatswain slash barrel keeper.
MARISHA: Can you be a cook?
TALIESIN: I am a cook.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
TRAVIS: Me?
MATT: Yes.
TRAVIS: Ten.
MATT: Ten? Okay.
TALIESIN: I look like Shaggy from the special
episode of Scooby Doo where he's pretending
to be a pirate.
MATT: You find a few folk that are pretty good,
so you hire pretty much for all the other positions
you need. The navigator's the one you're having a
hard time with. Everyone you've talked to is like,
"Yeah! I can sail the sea!" And you're like, "Hm.
Nah." You're having a harder time finding a navigator.
SAM: Maybe we should go elsewhere.
TRAVIS: Yep.
SAM: Let's go elsewhere.
MARISHA: Wait, are we at a bar or something?
TRAVIS: No, we're at the docks right now.
We'll go to the Seafloor Bounty first.
LIAM: Seafloor Bounty.
MATT: All right. I'm assuming in this degree,
you're going to these places to find these hires,
as opposed to having to roleplay every interview
with each of these crewmen.
TALIESIN: It's been awhile. I don't know. Sorry!
MATT: That's true.
TRAVIS: We never know, we might kill them, so--
MATT: Yeah, that's possible.
MARISHA: If we stop at any bars along the way
(whispering) whisper campaign.
LIAM: Do you know what this is reminding me of,
though? Is getting the crew for our keep in the
last home game.
TALIESIN: That was totally what I was thinking
about.
MATT: Kind of.
TALIESIN: We also make them fight and try to kill
each other.
MATT: So whisper campaign. One of you make a
deception check and one of you make an
investigation check.
SAM: I'll do investigation.
MARISHA: Okay. I'll do deception. Natural 20.
MATT: Oh shit!
TALIESIN: Thank god.
SAM: It's not a roll. Not great. Investigation.
17.
MATT: 17. That's pretty good.
SAM: Wasn't a good roll, but I have a lot of
plus.
MATT: There you go. All right. What whispers do
you want to disseminate?
MARISHA: I disseminate that these ruffian pirates,
coming in, messing up our nice and peaceful
Nicodranas again. I heard it was that Captain
Jawgrasp. He came in and he deceived his own crew,
and he murdered them all in a plot of vengeance
and greed, and then he took the boat, and he went
off on his own.
MATT: All right. As you're spreading this rumor,
you start hearing people responding to that being
like, "Jawgrasp, wasn't he found dead at the docks
the other night?"
SAM: Let's adjust--
MATT: Hold on. You do find out that a number of
the corpses that were gathered, the two names that
you find are Captain Javeed Jawgrasp and Mattheus
Freecall. They were both known criminals that had
bounties on their head. In one hand, there is a
search for, or at least there is an understanding
that some unknown do-gooders were responsible for
killing two people with bounties on their heads.
However, there was a blue-skinned tiefling that
killed herself on the dock and people are trying
to find out information. They're searching for the
body, and they're trying to find out who that was.
Apparently, a ship was taken from some of the
surviving crew of these people. You're getting the
idea that the guards didn't realize there was a
conflict happening, and just assumed that whoever
took the boat, you guys, were members of this
Captain Jawgrasp's crew.
LIAM: The rumor we're trying to spread is what
they already think.
SAM: The whisper campaign succeeded!
MARISHA: Succeeded? Yeah! We're already great!
SAM: But we should adjust it, right? If they're
looking for Jester, why don't we put in a little
doubt, right? They're looking for a blue-skinned
tiefling. Why don't we just say: Oh, I heard it
was a green-skinned dwarf, or something like that.
Just do a little confusion so maybe they're not
sure who it was, who killed herself on the dock. I
heard she was already crazy, or something like
that. And then maybe the ship that was taken.
Didn't it have that distinct three-mast silhouette
that you would definitely recognize?
MARISHA: Yeah. Oh yeah!
SAM: Yeah. We could do some of that.
MARISHA: It was so dark, but the sails seemed
black like the heart of Captain Jawgrasp.
SAM: Yeah, sure.
MARISHA: Just like his soul.
SAM: A little flourish.
MARISHA: Yeah. Maybe this-- We got to come up with
something better than green-skinned dwarf. That's
not a real thing.
SAM: What?
TALIESIN: That's how we do it at home, is you
raise your hand.
SAM: What is it, Mr. Clay? We want your input, as
you are definitely part of this team.
TALIESIN: I see what you're doing and I like it. I
like a good ghost story. Maybe--
MARISHA: Ooh. This is getting so complicated with
each layer!
TALIESIN: Maybe they saw everybody knows the
legend of the little devil girl who drowned a
hundred years ago.
SAM: And you see her every hundred years?
TALIESIN: Every now and then, someone reports
about seeing--
TRAVIS: Jason Voorhees Jester.
LIAM: Yes, more often than a hundred years.
TALIESIN: Everyone loves a good dock tour. Like, a
haunted dock tour.
LIAM and MARISHA: That's true.
TALIESIN: Well, I like a haunted tour. I've never
actually been to a dock, now that I think about it.
MARISHA: She drove the captain mad with the
vengeance--
LAURA: No! He drove her crazy with love! And she
killed herself because she couldn't be with him!
MARISHA: Yeah. Now her spirit lives on, and she is
haunting sailors, looking for her long-lost lover!
LAURA: I love it!
MATT: All right. You've planted the seeds of this
ghost story on the docks. In an attempt to co-opt
the story of this blue-skinned, horned tiefling,
you've also disseminated the information that
Jawgrasp died somehow in line with this ghost
story.
MARISHA: I'm just saying. Spooky coincidences.
SAM: The curse.
MATT: We'll see if it sticks. You've set the
seeds.
MARISHA: We, once again, put misinformation out
about the boat.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA and MARISHA: What it looked like.
MATT: Okay. Remember, everything you've heard are
all been common rumors. People just talking who
hear the whispers you're saying and the tales, and
retorting with what they've heard in the past
morning because there was hubbub. People there are
discussing what they saw or heard about what happened.
LIAM: Rumors only grow.
MATT: But you haven't seen any of the guards that
were present. All right, cool! While that's
happening, you're all still trying to find a
navigator.
LIAM: Find that navigator. Did we find the rest?
MATT: Make an intelligence check.
LIAM: Oh. 14.
MATT: 14? Okay. You have met one navigator
before.
LAURA: (gasp) I remember!
LIAM: I do not.
LAURA: Was it Orly?
MARISHA: I think it was Orly.
LIAM: Was it within the last month? Then you have
to tell me who it is.
MATT: That's what I did, it's Orly.
LIAM: She said Orly, you didn't confirm it!
MATT: I was waiting to see if you'd pick up on
it.
TALIESIN: Oh really?
MATT: Oh. That's going to cost you. Caduceus'
intelligence just went to eight.
TALIESIN: That was all me, that wasn't Caduceus.
Ugh.
MARISHA: Let's go get Orly.
SAM: He's in the other port.
TRAVIS: That's all right, go get them. We don't
look like ourselves.
LIAM: Yeah, we'll walk there. We need turtle
power.
SAM: How long is the walk?
MATT: From here? I'd say-- Carefully? About an
hour.
SAM: An hour. We'd have to re-spellify ourselves.
LAURA: We can send a message to him.
SAM: Oh! How do you send a message to him? You
mean, like, spell Message?
LIAM: Ja.
SAM: He's not going to respond to that!
TALIESIN: If there's money involved.
LAURA: Yeah, hold on.
SAM: All right. Think hard about this.
LAURA: This is a powerful spell.
LIAM: Offer money from the get-go.
SAM: Come to Open Quay.
LAURA: Come to The Mistake in the Open Quay.
SAM: Lose all the thes.
LAURA: Come to Mistake in Open Quay. We've got
money for you as a navigator.
TALIESIN: Job opportunity.
SAM: You still have more words.
MARISHA: Should we say, "We're The Mighty Nein,
we met you the other night"? No, maybe not.
SAM: Why do we know that he likes or hangs out
with?
LAURA: Marius.
SAM: Oh, we can say "Marius needs help. Come to
Open Quay--"
LAURA and LIAM: No.
SAM: No? Shit.
LIAM: Just say, your messages, you put it: Your
friends from the other night. That's it.
LAURA: Dear Orly--
MATT: That's the first two. Go.
TALIESIN: (singing) How are you? I'm fine.
Everybody else is too.
LAURA: Come to Open Quay. The Mistake will hire
you as a navigator. Lots o'money. That's one word.
MATT: (uncertain groan)
LAURA: O'money. Of money. Okay. Lots of money. No,
no.
MATT: No, I know.
SAM: Now?
LAURA: How many words do I have left?
SAM: Is that 17 that she's--
MATT: Yeah, eight left.
LIAM: Eight left?
SAM: Come now. Also, The Mistake is a boat.
LAURA: Come now. Also, The Mistake is a boat.
MATT: Yep. There's a brief pause, and eventually,
you hear this voice come through, "I'll swing on
"over. Soon as I m-m-muster the energy to finish
my breakfast."
LAURA: He's coming.
MATT: Little time passes, and sauntering up onto
the dock, you see the massive, waddling form of
the tortle, with the sack over the shoulder. The
rest of the deckhands look and give a nod. Some
recognize him, others are still like, "Fucking
tortles, they're weird." Then eventually makes his
way to the ship, over to the skiff and goes-- Oh
no, you guys have the ship in dock. You brought it
all in there. He walks over and steps up onto the
gangplank. "So whom-- who am I talking to?"
TRAVIS: Me, apparently.
MATT: "Hey there, it's real good to see you again.
I heard from some m-m-mysterious magic voice that
"you were going to hire someone to navigate."
TRAVIS: We were hoping your services weren't
spoken for.
MATT: "How long you looking to need m-m-me?"
TRAVIS: Few weeks? At the most, maybe only a
couple.
LIAM: Do you know who you're talking to? We all
look different from the last time that we have met.
MATT: "I have no idea."
LIAM: We came to see you, we talked about that
we-- a man named--
LAURA: Shush, just let him get on the boat before
we tell him these things.
LIAM: We like the look of you. We have a good job
and big money.
MATT: "I'm m-m-mighty confused, but money
definitely drives, so."
SAM: How much do you charge on a weekly rate?
MATT: "Weekly, let me think. 35 gold?"
MARISHA: (shouting) A week?!
TRAVIS: A week.
LIAM: A week, yeah, it's--
SAM: We might be gone a month or two.
LIAM: Well, I have 20 gold.
TRAVIS: 27 gold a week.
MATT: Make a persuasion check.
MARISHA: Yes.
LAURA: How are we going to get enough gold to pay
all of these people?
SAM: He's literally our only job candidate.
MATT: Yep.
TRAVIS: 19.
MATT: "Deal, if I get to choose my quarters."
SAM: Choose your quarters?
MATT: "M-m-my quarters."
TRAVIS: We can accommodate that.
MATT: "Then, m-m-my friend, it's a deal."
(laughter) Begins walking up the gangplank and
then inflates the bag and (bagpipe sounds)
announces his presence onto the ship as he arrives.
SAM: We're trying to be quiet.
LIAM: A full Scottish send off when we leave.
MATT: Yeah. You know, the more you hear it, the
more you're like, "Eh, it's not that bad,
"actually." It's the initial note that kicks in and
once you get used to it, it's not bad.
LIAM: It breathes better in open space.
MATT: Yeah. All right, with your crew and supplies
acquired and--
MARISHA: We did it.
MATT: -- possible seeds of whispers disseminated,
some information gained about the scenario of
those that you killed on the dock the night
before, and the knowledge that they're still
searching for the rest of the crew, you make your
way off the dock. Are you going to try and pass by
the Zhelezo ship once more? Because you're going
to have to to make your way out.
TRAVIS: Well then, yeah.
MARISHA: Can I assist him with counting as they go
by?
MATT: Actually, with Orly hired and helping you
out with this. Did you tell Orly you were trying
to avoid that ship?
TRAVIS: Yes.
MATT: Orly goes, "I think this helps me know what
kind of business we into." Okay, with advantage on
that. Nice, all right. Quickly telling you, "All
right, go now, round about that way," he begins
giving you the proper timing and based on your
previous information, without issue you manage to
dodge the Zhelezo ship, make your way to open
waters and now, in the later afternoon, you guys
have now exited the outskirts of Nicodranas. We'll
see how much of what you've left behind helps to
what you left behind the night before, but
nevertheless you have a crew, you have supplies,
and you are on the water. With that, we're going
to go ahead and take a break.
SAM: Wow.
LIAM: Nice, nice, nice.
MATT: You hired the tortle!
TRAVIS: Just keep him around.
TALIESIN: I want to hear you do that voice
forever.
MATT: Well I have to now. You fucking hired him.
I was thinking, I'm like, "They met a navigator.
"Aw fuck." All right, so we're at the giveaway break.
We're going to be giving away this awesome
Peruvian walnut tabletop dice tray by Wyrmwood. It
is slick, it is leather on the inside, it feels
like. For this, the keyword tonight is "theft."
Come over to the Critical Role Twitch channel and
the chat room to be a part of this giveaway during
the break, that's twitch.tv/criticalrole, enter
the word "theft" once, any more than that and
you'll be disqualified. Once again, it's only good
for those in the United States and Canada,
excluding Quebec, we're working on it. We'll have
the winner when we come back, so see you guys here
in a few minutes. Yeah!
[break]
MATT: And welcome back. We have our winner of the
fantastic giveaway, the Peruvian walnut tabletop
dice tray by our friends at Wyrmwood is Goku518.
That's right, not only does he keep coming back
from the dead, he also wins dice trays. Goku, you
won this awesome tray. We'll get that sent out to
you ASAP, we'll get your info. Congratulations,
and well done. Picking up where we left off, as
Orly is on the ship, Orly also brings with him a
map of the Menagerie Coast. Because USPS is the
fucking worst--
SAM: Please sponsor our show. Please sponsor.
MATT: -- it did not arrive in time, the full one,
so you'll have to deal with this printout for the
time being, but there is one on the way.
SAM: How big was the full one going to be?
MATT: Pretty big.
(disappointed groaning)
MATT: I know. Next week, possibly at the live
show. There we go. That can be something for you
to reference for your travels on the Menagerie
Coast.
MARISHA: I keep sharpening it, and it's just
shit--
LIAM: Rose gold.
SAM: (Russian accent) Rose gold is best gold.
(regular accent) I'm wearing an Apple watch with a
rose gold band on it.
MATT: Oh, Sam.
MARISHA: Mine and Matt's wedding rings are rose
gold.
SAM: (Russian accent) It is the best color.
MATT: (mimicking accent) It is good for for
wedding materials as well, yes.
(regular accent) Mighty Nein, you have your crew.
This is a pretty packed ship for a runner ship,
because you have a full crew, and then on top of
that, you have you guys. As opposed to training
as sailors, you've hired more on top of what you
have, so now you have a very busy ship. However,
you are out and about on the ocean. What are
you guys going to do, where are you going, what's
the plan? Orly needs something.
SAM: Yeah, we've got to show-- maybe this jogs
Orly's memory. Orly-- why am I showing this to
you, but here, here's a piece of a map we
retrieved! We'd like to go there. But keep it
secret from the rest of the crew.
LAURA: Is that the Inky Claw Reef?
MATT: He compares it with the map and goes,
"B-b-est I can tell, it's probably close to the
"Inky Claw, you know?"
SAM: Oh, you were right, Fjord!
TRAVIS: You're off the boat.
MATT: "What?"
MARISHA: Take your gold and leave.
TALIESIN: Why do they call it the Inky Claw?
TRAVIS: Why do they call it the Inky Claw?
MATT: From what you know, partially because the
waters around there are very murky and very dark,
so it's hard to see where the reef comes close to
the surface. A lot of the sea creatures that live
in the area tend to knock a lot of the silt up,
that's close to the bottom of the reef, which
means sometimes the reef sneaks up on you and
rakes across the bottom of the ship itself.
TRAVIS: Because we have this map, and we have a
navigator, that doesn't mean that we can go from
one destination on a map that we saw to another.
We still need to follow the trade routes, right?
MATT: You can, it just means that-- anything
that's off the trade routes means there is not a
lot of patrolling Zhelezo ships to maintain
protection for people that are using those lanes.
It also means that sometimes, as you've heard,
certain creatures that live in the ocean or
nearby, you're a little more susceptible to, but
it's a quicker route if where you're heading is
the Inky Claw?
LIAM: Roads. It's just like roads. Off roading it
or roading it?
MARISHA: Well, I mean, it looks like there's not a
main trade route.
TRAVIS: Yeah, if we stay on the trade route, we
have to go here, and then down, and then come
across, or we go here.
LAURA: Let's off-road it!
TALIESIN: As the crow swims.
SAM: (laughs) As the crow swims?
TRAVIS: (laughs) Do crows swim?
LIAM: Sure.
MATT: You're telling Orly to head to where?
TRAVIS: Well, I want to make everyone aware of the
dangers, okay. If we take the trade route, it will
take three and a half times longer to get there
than if we just go from Point A to Point B. But
Point A goes across uncharted waters, and on this
map there are giant tentacles coming out of the
water, probably just for flavor.
LAURA: I told you, sea monsters!
TRAVIS: Could just be artist's interpretation, to
try and fill in blank space, doesn't mean anything.
LIAM: There's tentacles on the map?
LAURA: I can't tell anything about what's
happening here. Port Damali. Nicodranas.
TRAVIS: Nicodranas, and the Inkclaw is down to
your lower right hand corner.
SAM: Those could just be vines.
TALIESIN: Literally can't tell what that is.
MATT: Sea vines.
TRAVIS: They're like little sea cucumbers.
LIAM: TGIF flair, is all that is.
TRAVIS: We also have this map, which is at the top
of the Inkclaw Reef, that will guide us through
the reef. Instead of coming this direction and
then down and underneath, which is what you would
probably be doing.
LAURA: Let's do it!
TRAVIS: All right. We'll instruct Orly--
SAM: Not only will we do it, we will do it in
solidarity with you and your quest, because
we are a team! A cohesive unit that acts as one!
When one member wants something, we all want
something, right guys?
LIAM: Ja, of course. We are The Mighty Nein, not to
be trifled with. Welcome to The Mighty Nein, Caduceus.
SAM: Put it in!
TRAVIS: Put what in? The map?
LIAM: No, she means your hands.
MARISHA: Both hands, or just one?
LAURA: And Yasha!
MATT: Yasha puts one hand in as well.
SAM: On three, ocean. One, two, three!
ALL: Ocean!
TRAVIS: Is that a goblin thing?
SAM: Now it's a--
LAURA and SAM: It's a Mighty Nein thing!
MARISHA: Yeah! We have a thing.
SAM: It's a new thing.
TRAVIS: We're going to instruct Orly to navigate
from north to south to the top of the reef, using this.
MATT: Orly corresponds and is like, "Just out of
personal curiosity, why are we heading through the
"reef? Where are we going?"
TRAVIS: We are trying to catch up with a captain
that we need to make contact with.
MATT: "All right. Well, this captain you're talking
about m-m-may be where that 'X' is on the paper?"
TRAVIS: I think they might, yep.
MATT: "So that's putting us right by the island."
LAURA: Which island?
MATT: He points to, just on the outskirts of the
'X', the land mass.
LAURA: Oh, that island.
MATT: "According to my map right here, that is
Urukayxl."
TRAVIS and SAM: Urukayxl?
LAURA: I see it, yes, I see this map.
MATT: "That's a real avoided locale."
LAURA: Why?
MATT: "Superstition. Many folks around here, they
talk about the dark stories of dense jungle and
"very dangerous, iron-bearing creatures. They talk
of strange, ancient m-m-masses, and they talk of
"wild, unnatural types."
LIAM: Could it just be talk? For instance, there
is a rumor of a ghost girl on the docks back in
the Menagerie Coast we heard circulating.
MATT: "Not too familiar with that one, but it's
possible. Mind you, I'm the navigator, I ain't
"getting off the ship, so that's all up to you."
LAURA: Have you ever heard of the Silver Silt
Palace?
MATT: "Can't say I have."
LAURA: Okay, just checking.
TRAVIS: Caduceus, are you excited about these
haunted stories?
TALIESIN: I mean, I guess, I don't know. I hadn't
really thought about it.
LAURA: Hey look, it could be the path leading us
to more dead people, yeah?
TALIESIN: I guess. I don't know, I'm trying to
reevaluate my expectations, I suppose. But we have
a direction, we have a place to go, and stories
are stories.
LIAM: This thing that you want to do, this mission--
I'm sorry, I overheard last night-- is there a
place that it needs to happen, or is it something
that you will do wherever you go on the road?
TALIESIN: I didn't really think it through, I
hadn't really-- I thought it would be easier to
figure out.
MARISHA: Caduceus, do you actually even know what
you're looking for?
TALIESIN: A sign.
MARISHA: So you came with us because we thought we
were a sign?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: And now you're looking for the next
sign.
TALIESIN: Well, when you say it out loud--
TRAVIS: Whereas he still hasn't found what he's
looking for.
MATT: Yasha actually approaches from the side,
overhearing the conversation, looks up to you,
Caduceus, and goes, "I know what it's like to be
looking for some meaning. Some guidance.
"Do you trust in your visions?"
TALIESIN: I did. I-- yeah.
MATT: "And you have strong faith in this thing you
follow?"
TALIESIN: Yes.
MATT: "Then if you ever go off the path, maybe
they'll tell you. You just have to keep looking."
TALIESIN: Well, that's fair. I hadn't really
thought about that.
MATT: "It's kind of new to myself as well."
TALIESIN: We're heading towards an island. I've
heard stories. Let's go to the island.
MATT: As you guys are--
MARISHA: When we fully get out of the reach of the
land, by the way, as we're sailing away, I just
want to keep an eye out on the horizon and be
like: Professor! See if I see him.
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: I throw some dead pigeon or seagull in
the air.
TRAVIS: Never has there been a more worthless
perception check.
MARISHA: Nope. Seven.
MATT: No sign of the Professor. You do have-- what
is it, Sprinkle? Sprinkle is still nestled up next
to you. However your blink puppy, Nugget, still
remains with Marion back in Nicodranas.
LAURA: I want to send a message to her before we
go to sleep tonight.
TRAVIS: To Nugget or your mom?
LAURA: To my mama.
MATT: Okay. All right. The evening comes quick; by
the time you guys are leaving, it's not that far
from dusk, and so your first evening out on your
new trajectory, you have time. What do you want to
send to Marion?
LAURA: Mama, stuff happened at the docks and we
had to leave very quickly. Please take care of
Nugget for a while. We'll be back, I promise. You
may have heard about the little girl who was
killing herself on the dock--
MATT: Are you using this across multiple spells?
LAURA: Yes, this is my second message. My second
message: that looked like me but it wasn't me,
don't worry, I'm very much alive, and I love you
very much, and I'll be home soon.
LIAM: Beep!
MATT: She doesn't have the chance to respond to
the first one, because you go right through to the
second, but Marion does respond to the second and
goes, "Oh! Well, thank you for letting me know,
"Jester. Be safe, be bright, and make me proud. And
come back soon. You and your friends. Goodbye!"
All right, who's keeping watch the first evening?
Because now, with a full crew, you can go full
pace on this longship, which will put you about 72
miles per day. It's about a 250 nautical mile
trip, including through the reef, with a full
crew. That means it'll put you there in a little
over three days, about three and a half, maybe
four days with careful passage through the reef.
For the evening, who's watch? Okay. And you have
crew who can take up as well, if you want to. So
one of you or both of you, make a perception
check.
LAURA: Want both of us to do it?
TRAVIS: Sure. Ten.
LAURA: 15.
MATT: 15? Okay. During the evening, you keep an
eye on the waves. At some point, the moon itself
is starting to find itself low in the sky, and you
look over and you see this faint glow in the water
below. You feel the back of your neck get warm for
a second and you glance over to try and inspect
what the source of this light is. It's a jellyfish
bloom. You see hundreds and hundreds of these tiny
jellyfish below the surface that are giving this
faint bioluminescent blues and pinks and variety
of colors in that pastel spectrum. They pass under
the waves as you move by and you look out beyond
that and you can see a few more. For the next hour
or so, you look over the water and pass by these
beautiful little beacons of color in the middle of
this dark black ocean.
LAURA: Fjord, have you ever seen anything like
this before?
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
LAURA: Really?
TRAVIS: Yeah, they're beautiful.
LAURA: Yeah. I've never seen anything like this.
TRAVIS: Last thing you want to is jump in there,
though. That is a bad time.
LAURA: Really?
TRAVIS: Yeah, jellyfish sting and it's quite
painful.
LAURA: Sometimes things that are the most
beautiful are the things that can hurt you the
worst. Are you worried about where we're going?
TRAVIS: No. No, I'm more anxious to get there. My
curiosity, I suppose, overrides my fear.
LAURA: That's good. You're not afraid that this
captain is going to hurt you?
TRAVIS: No, I don't think I had gotten that far.
Plus, I have the sphere. Captain Avantika doesn't.
LAURA: That's true.
TRAVIS: I feel like we take care of ourselves
pretty well.
LAURA: Yeah. I promise I'll heal you if you start
to hurt, okay?
TRAVIS: Thank you.
LAURA: You're welcome. Do you ever get sad?
TRAVIS: Sad?
LAURA: Yeah, that sometimes things don't work out
the way you were hoping?
TRAVIS: Yeah. I suppose I get sad. Are you sad,
Jester?
LAURA: Only sometimes, but it passes really
quickly.
TRAVIS: I'm sometimes sad about the things that I
had before, that I won't have anymore. I sometimes
wish that things were different. What makes you
sad?
LAURA: I miss my mama already. I thought we could
see her longer.
TRAVIS: I am sorry that we left in the way that we
did. Would your mom ever think of leaving Nicodranas?
LAURA: I don't know. She thought about it one time
with my dad. She was planning to leave with him,
but then he never came back.
TRAVIS: Right. What would you want for her? To
stay there and grow old or--?
LAURA: I would like for her to be happy. I would
like for him to love her. I don't know. I would
like for her to not have to work anymore.
TRAVIS: That's very noble of you. Yeah.
LAURA: I'm pretty noble.
TRAVIS: Well, how about on some of these islands
I've heard that there is treasure.
LAURA: Oh really?
TRAVIS: Hard to find. I'm not making any promises,
but if we play our cards right and we take care of
each other, we might return a bit wealthier than
we left.
LAURA: This is a pretty good plan. Then we can use
that money to bribe The Gentleman to go back and
woo my mama again.
TRAVIS: Or give it to your mom and have her go
find The Gentleman, but she's just amazing.
LAURA: That could work, too.
TRAVIS: Yeah. Don't be sad. Your mom is very proud
of you, that much was clear.
LAURA: Yeah. Thanks, Fjord.
TRAVIS: Don't mention it.
MATT: The remainder of the evening goes thankfully
uneventful. The blooms fade as you pass through
the evening mating grounds of these jellyfish. The
next day comes, the morning comes, and your first
true on-the-ocean breakfast kicks in. Thankfully,
because of supplies that were purchased, there are
a number of fresh meats available. A proper
breakfast can be made. You can see through the
crew that you've hired, they're quite surprised by
the quality of food they're given on this journey.
There's a bit of like a, "Damn, now I'm glad I
agreed to this journey." They take some food and a
couple of them are like--
TRAVIS: They decided not to kill us.
LIAM: Mutiny!
TALIESIN: There are vegetarian options as well.
LIAM: "Wow, this quinoa's pretty good!"
TALIESIN: That's all I wanted, I can die happy
now.
MATT: Hilariously, Marius is actually a
vegetarian.
TALIESIN: Perfect.
TRAVIS: Of course he is.
MATT: He is! He's like, "I'll probably partake in
that, too, if that's all right?"
TALIESIN: No, please.
MATT: "This is delicious."
TALIESIN: Thank you, I'm very proud of this.
Family recipe.
MATT: "They're crazy, aren't they?"
TALIESIN: Completely crazy. Bonkers.
MATT: "What's going to happen, are they going to
let me go, you think?"
TALIESIN: Oh yeah. I mean, probably. I don't know.
I mean, I'm just barely attached on to this at
this point, but I think you're fine.
MATT: "If worst comes to worst, we cut and run,
huh? You and me?"
TALIESIN: Worst comes to worst, I'll make sure you
can cut and run. I think I'm stuck here for a
while, but I'll make sure you can bugger out if
you need to.
MATT: "Okay, thanks."
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: "Once again, very good."
TALIESIN: I have no idea what just happened.
MATT: Continuing on your journey, who's keeping
watch for this next day?
MARISHA: I'll go.
MATT: All right, so either you guys roll individually
or one of you with advantage, your choice.
MARISHA: Individually, yeah?
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: Perception?
MATT: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Nice. Solid.
MARISHA: Natural one.
LIAM: 17.
MATT: 17? Okay, good.
SAM: Marisha, you have to give $100 to 826LA.
LAURA: Oh my god, can you imagine? We would be so
broke.
SAM: Every time we roll a one, we have to donate
$100 from our own wallets.
MATT: Okay, since Orly is the navigator, helping
you out and are you leading this-- are you guiding
the boat, are you the captain of this?
LAURA: You're the captain, just take it.
MATT: You didn't hire a captain and they need to
be hired by somebody, so one of you needs to be
the captain.
LAURA: You're the captain. Captain Fjord!
MATT: You generally don't hire a captain for the
ship, like hey, we're just a bunch of assholes
with a boat! We need to hire someone to be our
leader and pay us.
TRAVIS: I saw, right next to the cut your own keys
booth next to the dock, there was a
rent-a-captain. He would sit there with a corncob
pipe and he's like, "Argh, me is a--"
TALIESIN: You didn't download the app, though,
didn't you, so you didn't hire him.
MARISHA: Yeah, that's just a photo opportunity.
MATT: What's your captain name, to your crew?
TRAVIS: My captain name?
MATT: They need to have to know who their captain
is, who they're going to go towards.
TRAVIS: Captain... Captain Tusktooth.
MATT: Captain Tusktooth. There we go. They're very
confused because there are no tusks visible on Tusktooth.
TRAVIS: Nope. You never want to see them.
MATT: Good to know, Captain Tusktooth. All righty.
LIAM: The perception check was for at night during
a shift?
MATT: No, this was throughout the day.
LIAM: All throughout the whole day, okay.
MATT: The crew's keeping watch, too, but this is
keen eyes and occasionally going up to-- climbing
the sail a bit to get a good view, or climbing the
mast to keep an eye out.
MARISHA: I'm leaning on the edge and I just go:
Caleb, this is boring. It's just blue.
LAURA: I'm blue!
MARISHA: Jester's more interesting to look at.
MATT: Roll a survival check with advantage for
Orly's help as the navigator. To keep us on task
and in the proper direction.
LIAM: Could we say that Beau and--
TRAVIS: Natural 20.
MATT: You're going to pick up some speed,
actually.
LIAM: Look at Fjord. He is the captain now.
MATT: Captain Tusktooth already, out of the gate,
acting like a captain and the crew's coming
together. For all of you who watched the fuckery
that was you trying to get out and then back to
port the night before, seeing a full crew on the
ship knowing what they're doing, you're like "Oh."
Yeah. It's probably good you hired this crew.
TRAVIS: Lower the inboard motor! Fire at--
LIAM: One quick thing.
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: You know, I want to thank you. You could
have told any of these people anything about me
and you have not.
MARISHA: No. Don't give me that much credit yet, I
still could.
LIAM: I know. You have every right to. I hope you
don't. I don't know how all of them would handle
it. Be that as it may, I have something for you.
MARISHA: What?
LIAM: I bring Frumpkin out in his new speckled elf
owl form, which is the smallest owl on the planet.
He weighs one ounce.
TRAVIS: Really, one ounce?
MATT: Oh no!
LAURA: Like the famous little owl with the star
eyes?
LIAM: The tiniest little owl that ever existed.
This is a loaner.
MARISHA: Oh my god.
LIAM: You can have him for roughly a week.
MARISHA: He doesn't look as angry as Professor
Thaddeus.
LIAM: No, this is the way owls are supposed to be.
I place him. He's going to listen to you.
MARISHA: Is he?
LIAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: I poke him and see if he bites me.
SAM: He's dead.
MATT: Every time!
MARISHA: Everything that I touch!
TRAVIS: One ounce! One inch punch!
MATT: It is technically a monk weapon, the index
finger.
MARISHA: My hands are registered weapons!
LIAM: A couple rules. He will listen to you. Will
you listen, Frumpkin? Frumpkin nods. Okay. If you
need to get him out of danger in a hurry, you
say "split." That's what it will take. You'll need
me to bring him back, but if he's in danger and
you want to keep him for your week loaner, you say
split. Okay? He's yours. Thank you. Yeah?
MARISHA: Thanks, Caleb. Thank you.
MATT: Your guys' day shift goes by, keeping watch.
Nothing really catches your attention; it's just
open shores and open waters. Since you're off the
trade route path, there don't appear to be any
other ships passing back and forth. It feels
comforting to be so alone in some ways, but for
some of you, it's strangely isolating. There may
be a few moments throughout the next few days
where you have to go below deck and not
conjecture, you especially, Caduceus. This is--
TALIESIN: I'm good in my head.
MATT: Day two and day three start getting a little
hard on you to-- we've been traveling for 48 hours
and literally everything looks exactly the same.
TALIESIN: I'm going to start probably talking to
fish at some point in the near future.
MATT: Okay. For the evening's watch on the second
day, or this is technically the end of the first day.
SAM: I'll take a watch.
TALIESIN: I'll take it.
MATT: Both of you guys roll for your perception.
SAM: Six-- nine!
TALIESIN: 15.
MATT: 15, okay. You continue on through the
evening, uneventful.
SAM: Want any booze? Oh, you don't drink.
TALIESIN: I don't drink.
SAM: Mind if I drink?
TALIESIN: Not at all.
SAM: All right.
TALIESIN: Out of idle curiosity, why have you been
trying to butter me up?
SAM: Well, you joined us a little late in our
adventures, but many of us-- not me, of course--
but many of us were maybe outcasts or whatever
before. Over the course of spending some time
together and traveling and doing some good things,
mostly good things, but a few bad things together,
we've come to rely on each other and well, it
doesn't feel like we're outcasts as much anymore.
Just trying to maintain that sense of a unit.
Because even though we've made some mistakes and
we'll probably continue to, it feels like we're a
little bit better when we're together. This other
fellow in the group, Mollymauk, he sort of showed
us that... by dying. I'm just trying to keep us together.
TALIESIN: Well.
SAM: We all have our own things, right? I'm sure
you have your own thing.
TALIESIN: I do, and for the record, I'm on board
for now.
SAM: That's good.
TALIESIN: I'll keep your boy safe, that's okay.
SAM: Thank you. He will definitely need lots of
healing on this island. Between you and me,
Jester's a really bad cleric, so-- it'd be good if
you could just stick-- if I go right, you go left.
You stick with Caleb.
TALIESIN: I'm not an only child; I'm aware of how
this works.
SAM: Okay. You have sisters and brothers?
TALIESIN: Oh yeah.
SAM: Oh, that's right, you told us. You had a
large family, but they're all scattered about, right?
TALIESIN: They're somewhere, I suppose.
SAM: Are they trying to save your town? Is it a
town? Is it your home?
TALIESIN: It's just the temple ground, that's all
there is to it.
SAM: They're out there trying to find a solution
for whatever ails it?
TALIESIN: That's why they left, yeah. That was the
thought.
SAM: You've had no contact with them?
TALIESIN: No. I was the last one left.
SAM: Well, I hope no one breaks in.
TALIESIN: Well, I've resigned myself to the thought
that it's entirely possible that someone will.
SAM: I'm not a religious lady, but I will tell you
that, for me, this journey with this group has
been a bit of a sign. I know that you're
questioning whether it was for you, but--
TALIESIN: What kind of sign?
SAM: A sign that there could be, for all of us,
another chapter.
TALIESIN: Wow, I thought I had you figured out.
Never mind. All right.
SAM: I'm going to drink now.
MATT: (laughs) Finishing your watch, uneventful.
As the evening comes in, other folks can take a
shift, or you can leave it to any of your crew.
You don't have to take every shift, but you have
to rely on your crew to keep a watch.
TALIESIN: NPCs!
MATT: Any plans for the evening?
TRAVIS: I'll take the last watch. Is it at night
at all?
MATT: This would be night, yeah. You've been
captaining the ship for a full day.
TALIESIN: Before I go to sleep, I'm going to
politely ask any of the fish and things that are
in the ocean to let us know if there's trouble up
ahead. If they would be so kind.
MATT: Okay. You get the sense that the fish would
be happy to, as they--
TALIESIN: I'm a lunatic aren't I? There's just
no--
MATT: No, it's great.
TALIESIN: Okay, because I have a roll for this,
but I'm okay.
MATT: You lean over the side of the boat and,
talking to the fish that pass by-- you get the
sense that it's like, (chorus of fish) "Sure."
(laughter)
TRAVIS: You can talk to them, but they can't talk
back.
MATT: They're nowhere near as fast as the ship, so
within the sphere of perception that a fish has,
the ones that are now far behind you will definitely
let you know when you come across something.
TALIESIN: I don't know that.
MATT: I know. And I love playing that element.
LAURA: (as a fish) Nice boat!
TRAVIS: I'll hand off the wheel to someone and
I'll go down to the side of the ship and I'll
summon the falchion.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: With not a lot of people on the deck
paying attention, hopefully, can I reach over the
side and dip the tip of the sword into the ocean?
MATT: Sure. It drags through the water like any
other blade would.
TRAVIS: Does the eye do anything?
MATT: No, it doesn't react.
TRAVIS: Okay. I'll summon it back.
MATT: Okay. Falchion's back whence it came.
TRAVIS: (quietly) From whence it came.
MATT: Are you keeping watch?
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MATT: Make a perception check for me.
TRAVIS: Ooh, seven.
MATT: Okay, nothing for the evening. Okay. As
you're focusing on your blade on the side of the
boat, as it gets close to midnight-- let me
actually roll for the crew as well. Nope, okay. As
you are checking your blade and looking around,
you hear this sound that catches your ear. It's
like (rustling), but it's up. Glancing up to the
left of your vision, and there's a shape that's
sitting up on one of the sails.
LAURA: What the fuck? What is it?
MATT: Just a dark shape sitting up there on the
sail.
TRAVIS: Professor Thaddeus?
MATT: It's not moving.
LAURA: Oh god.
MARISHA and LAURA: It's so spooky.
TRAVIS: (whistle) I'll sound a general alarm.
MATT: As you whistle, you see it has two wings,
and it-- and takes off into the dark night.
SAM: What is it? What's going on?
TRAVIS: There was something that took off from the
mast; it had wings.
LAURA: Was it a parrot? I hear there's parrots on
pirate ships.
TRAVIS: It was pretty large, right?
MATT: It looked humanoid-ish.
LAURA: Humanoid-ish?
MATT: As far as size-wise, it looked like a human.
You saw big wings and you saw legs dangling. It
looked like a bird, but it was human-sized.
MARISHA: Where is Yasha? I go down; is Yasha still
sleeping, or is Yasha still here?
MATT: Yasha's asleep. You go down and Yasha sits
up. As soon as you enter the room, the chamber
that Yasha has--
MARISHA: (shouting) Yasha, are you still here?
MATT: Before you even get to that point, the sound
of the door opening, Yasha's like-- (panting).
MARISHA: (shouting) Yasha's still here.
MATT: "Be careful, Beau." Puts the blade and leans
it against the side of the cot and leans back.
MARISHA: Just wanted to give you a quick update.
Fjord saw a thing with two wings, appeared to be
humanoid, flying off the boat, and just wanted to
make sure--
MATT: Grabs the sword and gets back up and walks
past you and up the stairs.
MARISHA: (shouting) Yasha's coming.
LAURA: What the fuck was it, Fjord?
TRAVIS: I don't know. I didn't see, it's too
dark.
MARISHA: I'm going to turn around and do a scan of
the horizon. Do I see anything?
MATT: Perception check, with disadvantage, because
this is looking into far darkness.
MARISHA: I'll put my goggles on just in casies.
MATT: Just in casies, sure. But still at
disadvantage.
MARISHA: Nine. Eight.
MATT: Glancing out, it looks like-- at this point,
the moon is just starting to vanish in the
distance, so there's not a lot of light, and it
looks like a black, endless void around the ship
with just a faint image of a blue line as a
horizon in all directions.
LAURA: Can I climb up to where it was and see if
it left anything behind?
MATT: Sure.
TRAVIS and SAM: Like some poop.
LAURA: Like poop, or a feather, or--
MATT: You make your way up. Go ahead and make an
investigation check.
LAURA: A wallet.
MARISHA: Look, personal identification.
LAURA: 12.
MATT: You look and you can see-- it's dry,
weathered wood; this mast has been in use for a
while. You do see what appear to be some grooves,
like large talons.
LAURA: It had claws.
LIAM: Oh hey. Rub a little phosphorus on and--
send a globule of light 120 feet in every
direction from the boat, four of them, to see if
there's anything.
MATT: Okay. As the lights drift out, at that
moment, you watch as a series of shapes swoop in
(squawking). In that instant, you watch as a
cluster of harpies-- not coming towards you-- are
now coming in and dive-bombing the sails. They're
rushing in and trying to drag their claws through
to put you dead in the water. From a narrative
standpoint, go ahead and roll initiative.
MARISHA: Jesus.
SAM: No, oh no. Laura asks a good question.
LAURA: It was last campaign, Travis said.
MARISHA: Here's my boots.
MATT: All right. 25 to 20?
MARISHA: Sorry.
SAM: Oh, do you want someone to roll for Yasha?
MATT: Oh, yeah.
LIAM: Matt'll do it.
MATT: Yeah, that's a 16.
SAM: Whoa, best roll ever.
MARISHA: That's because Ashley's not here to roll
initiative for herself. 20 for Beau.
TALIESIN: Are we doing 25 to 20 still?
TRAVIS and LAURA: Yeah.
LIAM: We've been doing therapy talks for two and a
half hours, Matt has to wake up now. We're on combat.
MATT: All right. 20 for Beau. 20 to 15?
LAURA: 18.
TALIESIN: 17.
MATT: Ooh, look at that.
TALIESIN: There we are.
TRAVIS: Yasha had 16.
MATT: Yep. Jester, Caduceus, Yasha. 15 to ten?
TRAVIS and SAM: 11.
LIAM: Nein. Oh no, I was saying no in German,
excuse me. I did not roll a nine.
MATT: Nott, Fjord, and then Caleb, you're last?
LIAM: Ja. Five.
MATT: All right. Harpies rolled a natural 20 on
their initiative roll.
SAM: Whoa.
MATT: With their plus one, that's a 21, so they're
going first. You watch as six harpies come
swooping in. Two of them land up on top and
getting a view of who all's on the ship. The few
crew that are currently running the deck start
shouting, "Harpies!" and they start running.
They're not hired to fight, and they go charging into
the cabin below. They're both looking towards the
guys who are running and they're both going to swoop
down and see if they can go over to the deckhands.
TRAVIS: Have they already slashed the sails?
SAM: No! Not our crew!
MATT: No, not yet. Those two haven't. One of
them's going to swoop down-- that's cocked. No,
not with a six. Manages to try and harry the guy
and he kicks it off, manages to push through. The
other one dives down to grab a second one. Does
manage to do so. Claws sink in, not doing a whole
lot of damage, but you watch as it grips into and
begins lifting one of the deck hands. He's three
or four feet off the ground, and he's like--
(yelling), and the harpy's lifting him up. Three
of the others are going to tear through the sails,
and one of them is about to land on the poop deck
on the back towards the stern of the ship. The
three are going to try to sweep across the sails.
Yeah, that's a hit. That's a hit.
LAURA: Fucker.
MATT: That's a miss. One of them attempts to try
and grab towards the sail, but the way the wind is
blowing, it can't actually get a hold of it and
only does a slight tear on the side. The other
two, however, with their claws-- seven, 13 points
of damage to that sail. You hear the tearing sound
as they both drag a series of open tears across
the central sail on the main mast. You watch as
the sail-- (flapping) the ship's starting to slow
a little bit in that process. The one that lands
in the back of the ship stops, wings out, inhales,
and this voice begins to emerge, this strange,
baleful-- (singing)-- this weird, ghostly voice
that seems to emanate and then grow into its own
chorus-- it's like a dirge, almost-- as it spreads
out into the space. I need everybody to make a
wisdom saving throw.
SAM: Ooh. Not my strength.
MARISHA: Natural 20.
MATT: Great.
TRAVIS: 16.
MATT: That's a success.
LIAM: 16.
MATT: Success.
SAM: Eight.
MATT: Fail.
LAURA: 24.
MATT: Success.
TALIESIN: 17.
MATT: Success. Roll for Yasha, if you don't mind.
One of you.
SAM: 15 plus--
MATT: Everyone succeeds. You hear this and you
feel this weird, faint grasp in your brain, this
song beginning to placate your adrenaline, but
then you shrug it off, except for Nott. Nott, you
are charmed by this harpy. You listen to this
music, and it's beautiful. You find yourself-- all
the tension leaving your body, and you can't focus
on anything else. You're just watching it there.
You guys watch as Nott's arms drop, her weapon
going limp to her side, her head turned slightly
towards one shoulder and smiling, listening to
this song. One of the crew that's not currently
being held by the harpy almost makes it into the
lower cabin, and then stops dead in his grasp and
is also entranced by the song. The harpy continues
to sing. All right, Beau, you're up first.
MARISHA: With a quick glance, does it look like
the sail is worth trying to save any further, or
is it fucked? Just with a quick glance.
MATT: No, the sail is not completely destroyed,
and it could be repaired, should they not continue
to pull it apart.
MARISHA: They look like they're still going for
it?
MATT: It looks like it.
MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to run over and try and
collapse the sail. So it's not unfurled, try and
collapse it? I don't know if that's the right
call.
MATT: You can give it a shot. All right. You have
done a little bit of sail work. I'd say make a
quick intelligence check. Having not been formally
trained, necessarily, we'll see if you can--
MARISHA: 17.
MATT: Yeah, in your time on the ship and studying
how the different elements of the ship maneuver
together to create motion and riding the wind, you
figure out that one of the various ropes you pull
and release and will cause the sail to entirely
come down, or you could just pull it up and cause
it to no longer be unfurled.
MARISHA: Whatever's quickest.
MATT: Probably pull it in. You grab the rope and
pull it up. Both the harpies are curving around
for another series of attacks on it, but you're
pulling that element of the sail up.
MARISHA: Can I take a bonus action to do Patient
Defense after I do that?
MATT: You can. Your arm holds the rope in place
and you get yourself ready in case anything
happens. That finishes your go. Jester, you're
up.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to cast Spiritual Weapon as
my bonus action right above the singing harpy and
try to slam it down upon her head.
MATT: Go for it.
LAURA: What-- that-- I don't know.
TALIESIN: That was exciting.
LAURA: I feel like that shouldn't count, but
whatever. That is a 12.
MATT: 12 hits.
LAURA: Oh, good!
MATT: They're not very hard to hit. They don't
have a lot of armor, if at all. They're more just
a little dexterous, but other than that-- you see
these harpy forms. You see these humanoid female
lithe bodies, naked, but their legs curl into
these taloned, hawk-like feet. They have these
sets of wings that come off of it, and their long
stringy hair. Their faces are little--it goes
beautiful to grotesque where the mouth itself seem
almost like the lips are shrunk and shriveled, and
series of sharpened, broken teeth are visible from
where they open their mouth.
LAURA: 12 damage.
MATT: 12 damage.
LAURA: Then, I'm going to use my action to--
SAM: Action surge!
LAURA: To cast Toll the Dead right over her head!
And ring a bell right across it.
MATT: All right. What is--
LAURA: Wisdom saving throw of 15.
MATT: Natural one. No.
LAURA: Yeah! That's 2d12.
SAM: (like Sesame Street's The Count) A two, a D,
a 12. Ah, ah, ah!
LAURA: Seven points of damage. Ah, ah, ah!
MATT: You see the impact of the spiritual weapon,
the large spinning lollipop cracking into her
face. The song stops for a second, and the blast
of divine energy in the middle of her head sets
her off, but she pushes through and continues the
song. Looks pretty hurt and is wondering what to
do next. That finishes your turn, Jester?
LAURA: Yeah, I guess. I'm on the sail, right? I'm
on the top?
MATT: Yeah, you're up at the top looking down, and
the two harpies that are spinning back, they
definitely noticed you casting these spells.
LAURA: Can I hold on? Can I grab onto rope or
anything? Or is that like an action?
MATT: You can try to reach for something.
LAURA: Could I consider my movement to like reach
down and hold onto like--
MATT: I'll say you hold onto a rope, sure. That'll
be your movement. Okay, that finishes Jester's
turn. Caduceus?
TALIESIN: First thing I'm going to do is I'm going
to cast-- I'm going to get myself into a
reasonable position and I'm going to cast-- where
did it go? There it is. Calm Emotions. In theory,
if this is a charm spell, and this counts as a
charm if I'm correct, you can just fail a charisma
save, if you'd like.
SAM: What? How does this-- Huh? Who?
MATT: What are you attempting to do here?
TALIESIN: I'm going to use Calm Emotions to negate
the charmed effect on Nott, and anybody within 20
feet of me. Actually, anyone within 20 feet of
it. I'm going to run a few feet away from you,
I'm going to take my staff and I'm going to pull
piece of silverware and bang that crystal. It's
going to make a dissonant sound and
wakey-wakey.
SAM: Whoa!
MATT: I will say, because technically--
TALIESIN: Charisma saving throw a creatures can
choose to fail this saving throw if it wishes.
MATT: Well no, there is no saving throw if they're
suppressing it. So it just happens. Suddenly, the
song that's entrancing you, you shake out of it as
Caduceus finishes muttering this phrase and you
feel the clarity come to your mind once more.
SAM: That was awesome.
TALIESIN: We've got work to do.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: This also affects the other deckhands.
TALIESIN: Yeah, so I'm just basically disrupting
that song as long as it's within a certain range
for about a minute. I'm also going to use my bonus
action to wake up the bugs.
MATT: The mass of winged beetles begin to clatter
out in a cloud.
TALIESIN: The one that's singing, I'm going to
roll it towards the lollipop.
MATT: Okay. They rush in there.
TALIESIN: Snack time.
MATT: Go ahead and make an attack. It's a d20.
TALIESIN: 17.
MATT: Yeah, that'll definitely hit. That is 2d--
TALIESIN: I got to fix this at some point.
MATT: Yeah, I'll make a print out. Remind me to make
a print out for you since this is having a hard time.
TALIESIN: I know. We just haven't had time to fix
anything.
MATT: I know.
SAM: Why not?
MATT: Yeah, it is 4d4.
TALIESIN: That's right. That's ooh! 15 points of
damage.
MATT: 15 points of damage?
LAURA: Beetle damage!
TALIESIN: I don't even know what just happened.
MARISHA: Caduceus is back!
MATT: Okay. The beetles are now swarming this
harpy who's taken bludgeoning. It is now bleeding
profusely, and you can only see part of her torso
and she's like (screeching). The song is dropped,
and now is trying to fly away as she's picking up
her wings, as these beetles are now tearing into
her flesh. That ends your turn, Caduceus?
TALIESIN: Yep.
MATT: Yasha's turn. There's the two that are up on
top, darting down to pick up the guy. The one
that's currently holding the other deckhand,
Yasha's going to rush forward, since it's
technically within her melee range. She's going to
rush forward and take two strikes. If someone
wants to roll for her.
SAM: I will.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: Nope, that's not a d20. A ten and a one.
MATT: All righty. The ten hits, the one does not.
SAM: Great.
LIAM: I'm sure some stuff was added to the ten.
MATT: All right. No, it's 3d6 actually.
LAURA: I want to do that.
MATT: Go for it.
TALIESIN: Yeah! Teamwork!
LAURA: Oh. Six!
SAM: My rolls were better!
LAURA: Your rolls would've been better.
MATT: Great, okay.
LAURA: You rolled a one on your hit. We both
suck.
MATT: Yasha carves through a large chunk of it.
The harpy still holds onto the deckhand, but is
unable to make a drop. This brings us to Nott and
Fjord.
SAM: Is anyone in melee range with anyone else?
MATT: Currently, there is the one holding the
deckhand that Yasha just attacked.
SAM: I'm going to shoot at that one.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: Okay. 15.
MATT: That hits.
SAM: Sneak attack.
MATT: They're not very armored or dexterous
creatures.
SAM: 18 points of damage!
MATT: 18 points of damage, nice. Blasts! You see
it has to right itself, she's flapping her wings,
but still holding on and trying now desperately to
just get away. There's no attempt to interface;
she has her quarry and is about to bolt.
SAM: Fire again, bonus action!
MARISHA: Kill it.
SAM: Oh, not good. 11.
MATT: 11 just hits.
LAURA: 11 hits!
SAM: Hits! Whoa! No sneak attack. Eight points of
damage.
MATT: Eight points of damage. Yeah, that'll do it.
As it's flying away, it gets about ten or so feet
up, and the deckhand is screaming "Ah! Help me!"
SAM: I've got you, nameless deckhand!
MATT: The bolt hits it, spins in the air, a
cluster of feathers, then slams down hard on the
deck of the ship. The deckhand also hits, and
rolls, and hits the side of the ladder that leads
up to the poop deck. He's like (groaning) and now
starting to freak out looking at the other harpies
that are circling. There's still five of them.
SAM: I'll use my movement to run over to the
deckhand and be like: You're okay now!
MATT: "Ah!"
SAM: You're fine!
MATT: All right. Fjord?
TRAVIS: I'll aim two Eldritch Blasts up at one of
the two harpies that's flying up above the mast.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: 19 on the first one.
MATT: That hits.
TRAVIS: And the second one is, ooh, 25.
MATT: Both hit.
TRAVIS: That is-- oh shit, where is the 1d10?
Ten!
MATT: Ten points of damage on the first one--
TRAVIS: Nope, no! Sorry, I was calling that out
like an idiot. 11 points of damage on the first
one, and seven points of damage on the second
one.
MATT: All right. You turn around, glancing up at
them, release that one blast of eldritch energy
that crackles and spins, slamming into each of
them up in the air, and lights up the sky above
the mast. You can see through the diffusing of the
impacts behind the sails on the opposite side of
the deck, for those of you on the other end of the
ship. As both of them spin into a circle, taking
pain from the impact, but then right themselves,
looking down to the source of this angry,
aggressive act.
TRAVIS: That's it.
MATT: All right. That brings us to Caleb.
LIAM: How far up the mast could you say I could
climb with my movement? Is that half speed?
MATT: With your movement, it would be half speed
and I'd say, for you, who's not a necessarily an
accomplished climber, it would be an athletics
check.
LIAM: Okay.
LAURA: Necessarily an "accomplished climber."
TALIESIN: Indoor kid.
LIAM: How high does the mast go?
MATT: The mast would go up probably 25, 30 feet.
LIAM: Nevermind. I will stand at the mast and I
will pull a white feather out of my coat and trace
a baleful glyph in the air and cast Fear, and they
must make a wisdom saving at 16.
MATT: Both of them?
LIAM: Anything within 30 feet of Caleb.
MATT: Anything within 30 feet of Caleb?
SAM: Anything?
LIAM: Enemies.
SAM: Oh, okay.
MATT: That would get three of them. The one that
failed to grab the other guy is just out of range.
TRAVIS: There's only three left, right?
MATT: There's five left, technically.
TRAVIS: I thought there were only five?
SAM: There were six--
MATT: There were six total. One's died, one of
them's close to death, and there are two wounded,
and two that have been untouched.
TRAVIS: Oh, the song broke, it didn't die.
LIAM: 16 wisdom save.
MATT: That's a failure. That's a failure. And
that's a success! The one that had missed one of
the deckhands and is on an up-swoop doesn't seem
affected. The two by the mast immediately, as the
glyph completes, and there's this very subtle
burst of dark, dull-green shadow energy that
emanates from you. Both of them (shrieking) and
are going to start getting the fuck out of Dodge.
All right, that ends your turn, Caleb?
LIAM: Yeah, that's it.
MATT: Back to the top of the round, harpies. Those
two harpies full dash, full run, go spinning back
in the direction they came. As far away from you
as they can get.
LIAM: Auf Wiedersehen!
MATT: Those two, for the time being, are out of
the way. Let's see if they can make their save. Nope!
LIAM: They have to be out of line of sight. If
they can see there's me on the boat--
MATT: That's true, yeah.
LIAM: That's what the spell says.
MATT: Yeah, facing away doesn't matter. Yeah, no,
they're still running.
LIAM: See ya!
MATT: Okay. There's the one on the back that's
near death, it's going to attempt to fly away as
well. It's going to move and dash. That's 80 feet
out, and it's trying to catch up with the other
two. Now there's three of them fleeing. That one,
that one, and that one. All right. The two that
are attacking-- there's two that are attacking the
mast. One picked him one, one that's singing. I
know, I'm trying to remember where it is. Okay,
yeah. There we go. There's the one that tried to
grab the one deckhand, it's going to swoop down
and try and grab him again because he hasn't made
his way fully in. Does manage to grab him. Swoops
down, only gets partial, only 15 feet up with him.
That's its turn. Let's see, the other two are
going to go ahead-- Two are fleeing. That's
fleeing. Oh, there's only one that's free. That
one is going to attempt to attack one of the other
sails because there's multiple sails up at that
point. A smaller one. You know what? No, it's
going to come after you since you're the one
that's holding the sail. It's going to swoop down
and attack you with claws.
MARISHA: Come at me, bitch.
MATT: That is a-- actually surprising, an 18.
MARISHA: Miss.
MATT: I think that misses you. Oh, it's at
disadvantage, too, because you have your--
MARISHA: Patient Defense.
MATT: Yes. Second attack. Yeah, misses with both.
LIAM: You motherfucker.
MATT: It's going to attempt to move 15 feet away
from you with the rest of its movement.
MARISHA: Pop!
MATT: Go for it. Make an attack.
SAM: Punch attack!
TRAVIS: Didn't we say we weren't going to try and
solve things with fists?
SAM: Yeah, let's talk it out.
MARISHA: It's all I have!
TRAVIS: (cawing)
MARISHA: 13. I believe that hits.
MATT: Yeah, that hits.
MARISHA: This is unarmed, ooh, ten total!
MATT: All righty.
LIAM: Max damage!
MATT: And it cannot move. It's less of a punch, but
more of like with your open hand, you grab the back
her leg and slam the harpy on the edge of the boat.
It gets dragged down and thrust down on the edge
of the railing and crack a rib, and it's trying to get
out of your grasp and it manages to pull free,
but now is right there next to you. Couldn't get
much further. You get the sense now that they're
retreating. This was a quick harrying. They didn't
expect quite so much resistance, and most of
them are wanting to get the hell out. With that
knowledge, Beau, it's your turn.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to use the rope that I'm
holding onto, and I'm going to use that to lift
myself up and do like a little swinging
double-kick action to this harpy.
MATT: I love it. Go ahead and make your two
attacks.
MARISHA: Little Cirque du Soleil shit. Both hit.
That's a 16 and a 19.
MATT: That's correct. Go ahead and roll damage for
each.
LIAM: Bop bop!
MARISHA: Pop pop. For both of them.
TRAVIS: Yeah!
LIAM: Yeah, high rolls!
MARISHA: Eight plus five is 13 plus another six is
19.
SAM: Oof.
MATT: 19 points of damage. Both kicks (whack
whack) to the harpy as she's trying to get back up
on the air; ends up knocking her back onto the
deck. (angry crowing)
MARISHA: Still up?
MATT: Still up and is now is going to continue to
try and make an escape.
MARISHA: I'm going to take the rope and wrap it
around my fist once and pop with my bonus
action. No, Flurry of Blows. Two attacks. Pop.
Pop.
LIAM: Come on, Beauregard!
MARISHA: Let me roll for two attacks. Okay, that
is 14 for one and a natural 19 for the other.
MATT: Yeah, roll damage.
MARISHA: Ten damage.
MATT: Ten damage total?
MARISHA: Yep.
MATT: With the next hit, you go ahead and just
punch past the face and then with the other hand
you wrap the rope around her throat then release.
You watch the tension of the sail as it unfurls
and snaps the neck of the harpy and drags her up
and is now dangling from the rope as the sail is
now unfurled again, still torn.
TRAVIS: Did you do that on purpose?
SAM: Wind physics.
MARISHA: It was better results than I expected.
LAURA: Always say yes!
MARISHA: Yes.
MATT: That finishes up Beau's turn. Jester, you're
up.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to use my spiritual weapon
to send it to the harpy that is trying to get that
guy off the ground.
MATT: Okay, go for it.
LAURA: Nine plus seven, it hits.
MATT: Yes, roll damage.
LAURA: Eight points of damage to him.
MATT: That was the first time that it's been
wounded. It gets hit by the large, spiritual
lollipop as it's trying to carry off the deckhand,
still holding on.
LAURA: I think I'm going to use Guiding Bolt on
the one that was flying away that was singing.
MATT: Okay, go for it. It's quite a ways away and
you can see it (flapping).
LAURA: I get 120 feet.
MATT: Yeah, definitely within 120 feet, so go
ahead and roll for the attack on that.
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay.
MATT: Level one?
LAURA: Yes, level one.
MATT: It looks pretty hurt.
LAURA: I don't know what I add to it.
TALIESIN: It should be right above.
LAURA: It's an 18, I get 18 plus whatever.
MATT: Yeah, it's your spell attack bonus. The same
as your spiritual weapon.
LAURA: Oh, okay plus seven. It's good.
MATT: 4d6.
LAURA: Oh, come on. Seven points of damage.
MATT: Seven points of damage. As you bring the
spiritual weapon down, you turn to see the other
one flying away. You release the bolt of vibrant,
radiant energy. It streaks off right as it's
flying, heading it off. You quickly aim, watching
its arc and as it flies away (impact)
(screeching). You watch this burst of light as its
body tumbles and sploosh into the ocean water
below. Jester, that finishes your turn. Caduceus,
you're up.
TALIESIN: Sure. Yeah. There's one that's trying to
get away with one of our deckhands?
MATT: Correct, it's been hit once.
TALIESIN: Okay. I'm just going to nuts and bolts
this. I don't suppose my insect swarm can attack
for a bonus action?
MATT: It can't get close enough, unfortunately.
TALIESIN: Well, then.
MATT: Yeah, the other harpy pulled away from it.
It can move closer, but it's not going to--
TALIESIN: I guess I'll do a Guiding Bolt at level
three.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: I just saw you that. I'm like: Ah.
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's 19, so that's 6d6.
LAURA: Damn.
TRAVIS: Shit.
MATT: Caduceus, looking at the swarm, turns
around, holds the staff in the air towards the one
taking off with one of your deckhands and when you
saw the bright beam--
TALIESIN: 16 points of damage.
MATT: Ooh! Spins around and releases a far heavier
and brighter burst of light that streaks into and
blasts into the harpy, wobbles in the air for a
second. The energy explodes and is now spinning,
keeping this weird shifting, like an atom spin
around the outside of its body. The next attack
has advantage because of Guiding Bolt. It's
looking pretty hurt, too.
LAURA: Show off.
MATT: That finishes Caduceus's round.
SAM: Is it carrying our deckhand over open water
now?
LAURA: Not yet.
MATT: No, not yet.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: Yasha's turn. Yasha-- it just grabbed him
and is trying to pull away. Yasha's-- I don't
think Yasha's close enough to hit and melee it, it
pulled him up too high.
TRAVIS: "Throw the sword," no.
MATT: Yeah, she's not going to do that.
TRAVIS: Fuck!
MATT: Yeah, that's not happening. There's not much
Yasha can do right now.
LAURA: Can she jump and swing?
MATT: Not really. Sorry. Yasha's going to get
underneath though, and prepare in case it does get
knocked down a peg or whatever, just gets the
sword at the ready and is eyeballing it angrily,
and is going to rage because that's fun. All right,
that brings us to Nott and Fjord.
SAM: I will fire at the thing. With my crossbows.
MATT: You do have disadvantage though, because
it's out of your firing range, although you can
probably move up closer and get within range. It's
up to you, you can do that.
MARISHA: The deckhand one?
SAM: Yeah, there's only one left, right? No?
Maybe?
TALIESIN: I think so, yeah.
LAURA: Yeah, there's one left.
SAM: I only rolled an 11.
TALIESIN: But you also have advantage because it's
got Guiding Bolt.
MATT: Yes.
SAM: Oh, that helps.
MATT: 11 does hit, but--
SAM: Oh, well that's even better, 17 to hit.
MATT: Go ahead and roll damage.
SAM: Sneak attack, because it's-- no, it's holding
the friend.
MATT: Not technically -- it's holding, yeah, and
it's not even an ally who's in combat with it, so.
SAM: It's an employee. Seven points of damage.
MATT: Seven points of damage, all right. (arrow
sound) Still flying.
SAM: I'll shoot again, one more time.
MARISHA: Come on, come on.
SAM: 18 to hit.
MATT: Yeah.
SAM: Only eight more points of damage.
MARISHA: That's pretty good.
MATT: That'll do it.
(cheering)
MATT: And all out of hit points. So (arrow sound)
the second one, you watch as it goes (pained
sounds) and it begins to just careen down towards
the edge of the ship.
SAM: Oh no!
MATT: It's about to slam-- we'll see, there's a
percentage chance here.
SAM: Ooh, percentage dice?
MATT: I'm going to roll a percentile dice to see
if it hits either on the deck, or over the edge.
No, it hits on the deck.
SAM: Oh, nice.
MATT: 50% chance of either. It crashes in to the
other guy, slams in to the side of the railing,
manages to pull free and catches up with the other
guy as they both run inside the ship. At this
point, the other harpies now are just--
TRAVIS: Bugging out.
MATT: Bugging out and fleeing.
MARISHA: Threats are all gone more or less?
MATT: At the moment-- by the time your spell would
wear off, there are none to be seen.
LAURA: Can I hang from my rope that I was holding
on to and slowly start casting Mending on the sail?
MATT: Sure.
TRAVIS: Oh, smart.
LIAM: Caleb clutches his chest and cries out and
falls to the floor of the boat. (gasping)
SAM: Oh no, it's his condition!
LAURA: (shouting) What's wrong with Caleb?!
SAM: It's a heart condition!
TRAVIS: Since when?!
SAM: He always has had one since he was a boy.
TRAVIS: Do you have any medicine for him?
SAM: Yes! He needs mouth to mouth resuscitation.
TRAVIS: Well, get at it!
SAM: No, no, no. My mouth is too small for a human
jaw to make perfect contact.
TRAVIS: Just cup his nose, just (breathes).
SAM: No, I can't get my mouth wide enough, too
many teeth are in the way!
LAURA: I'll do it!
SAM: That would be good, you or Beau really.
LAURA: I drop down. I have, like, really good
medicine training.
SAM: All right.
LAURA: (exhaling heavily)
MATT: Okay. Well Caleb, just for the sake of it,
roll a deception check.
LIAM: Ja, sure.
TRAVIS: "Ja, sure."
MATT: Just out of curiosity.
LIAM: It's pretty good. 20.
TRAVIS: Caleb, always pretending he's hurt.
MATT: Caleb is having a rough -- a terrible --
yeah, all right, so just-- so are you --
LAURA: I'm going to try to blow into his mouth
as hard as I can.
TRAVIS: You know how much that hurts?
MATT: Yeah, it's super uncomfortable, Caleb.
SAM: I think it'll help-- he's still not out of
the woods, I think we all need to pray.
LIAM: (strained) That's not what I was expecting!
LAURA: Oh good, you're alive!
TRAVIS: Do you want to lead the prayer?
SAM: Yes.
LIAM: Oh, thank goodness! You know I'm such a
fearful person.
SAM: Oh, maybe he's okay.
LIAM: I'm always getting scared of things and that
one was too much for me.
TRAVIS: He could be on the edge of life and, maybe
the prayer.
LAURA: I start climbing back up.
MARISHA: Glad you're not dead again, buddy.
LIAM: I look over at Nott.
SAM: Wow! You guys, we saved his life with the
power of friendship!
TRAVIS: Was that-- I thought it was Jester's
healing.
SAM: Yeah, but we all were there to pitch in.
TRAVIS: I just watched.
LIAM: Caleb is beet red. Beet red. Face matches
his hair.
TALIESIN: I don't understand anything that just--
TRAVIS: How do we prevent further heart episodes
from--
SAM: More friendship! Just more friendship.
TRAVIS: More friendship?
LIAM: No, we just need to not be attacked by
anything anymore, we need to just stop pursuing
our pursuits, and pick an island and stay there.
MARISHA: Are you saying you want to retire from
adventuring life, Caleb?
TRAVIS: Beau, go give Caleb a hug.
LIAM: I feel pretty good, I feel like--
MARISHA: You're so-- why are you so stiff?
TRAVIS: Like a Voldemort hug.
LIAM: This is feeling like it's going too far,
Nott.
SAM: (hisses) It's working!
MARISHA: We've only done this once before, Caleb.
It's still weird, I just want to point that out.
Okay, let go of me. Get off, yeah.
LIAM: Is it hot? Feels hot.
LAURA: (whispers) 12.
MATT: No sign of any harpies.
TRAVIS: How's that sail coming, Jester?
LAURA: I'm working on it!
MATT: It takes a short time but you manage to, in
the next ten minutes or so, feel comfortable that
you've mended most of what the harpies had done.
TALIESIN: I'm going to go down and let the crew
know that everything seems to be copacetic upstairs.
MATT: The two crew that you hired who already
rushed in there are in the process of telling
the story of what they just saw. They're like,
"And then there was a blasting light up there!
"It was crazy!"
TALIESIN: Hey, everything seems to have calmed
down upstairs, everything seems fine. I think I'm
going to try blintzes for breakfast tomorrow. I
feel like we could all use a treat.
MATT: You notice half of them go, "Yeah!"
TALIESIN: They don't know what I'm making them out
of, but yeah.
MATT: No. And the other half are like, "Blintzes?"
TRAVIS: Are we putting limits on your cuisine,
Taliesin?
TALIESIN: Not anymore! I now have the song "Every
Little Piece" from Pete's Dragon going through my head.
SAM: There's a harpy dead on deck, right?
MATT: Two of them.
SAM: I'm going to definitely butcher one of them
and try to take some meat for myself, and for the crew.
MATT: Go ahead and make a general medicine check.
SAM: Oh my goodness.
MATT: I'll say with disadvantage because you're
not too familiar with the body of a harpy.
SAM: Eight.
MATT: You butcher it. That's a gamey-ass harpy.
You do get some meat. To you it looks delicious,
but everyone else, you're like, "I'm good." You
get like a pound.
SAM: I want some wing.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Maybe they can deep fry it.
MATT: It's pretty sinewy.
TALIESIN: Do we have an empty barrel?
LAURA: I bought a couple barrels.
MATT: You guys bought a number of barrels. You
filled a lot of them--
TALIESIN: Whatever is left over if you could put
in there, and I'm going to start something and
hopefully something--
SAM: Like a stock?
MARISHA: He wants his dead people tea.
TALIESIN: I don't know what I'm going to get, I've
never tried harpy before. It could be mushrooms,
could be anything.
TRAVIS: Start something.
LIAM: Some bone broth, maybe?
TALIESIN: I'm going to give it a little zing and
see what I get.
MARISHA: Seeing Nott butcher the harpy, I go: Ooh!
I look in my pocket and I pull out owl Frumpkin.
Is owl Frumpkin okay?
MATT: Owl Frumpkin is fine.
MARISHA: Hey! Sorry about that.
MATT: (owl hoot)
MARISHA: Back in my pocket.
TRAVIS: Start moving his feet and his eyes stay in
the same place.
MARISHA: I make his head dance a little bit.
LIAM: I rolled for him last week and he
appropriately only has one hit point.
MATT: Good to keep that in mind. As you bring your
things in for the evening, that comes to a close;
your second full day of travel, now the following
morning, comes to bear. Who's keeping watch for
this day?
TALIESIN: Sure, I'll take that.
MATT: Make a perception check for me please.
TALIESIN: Ooh, that's terrible. 13.
MATT: 13, okay. For the day, you don't see
anything. You do-- no, you don't see anything.
Okay. Ocean! All wide ocean.
TRAVIS: Are you listening underneath the boat?
Using your sonar?
MATT: Yeah, what are you doing with your barrel?
TALIESIN: I just was going to put anything that
was dead now, and I was just going to see if I
could maybe start either-- I don't know what
they're going to make, but I'm curious if it's
going to be anything I can either eat or use as a
spice.
MATT: Okay, so you just begin to Decompose.
TALIESIN: I'm using the Decompose and ferment and
maybe hopefully getting some mushrooms or
something, I don't know what harpies make. We'll
find out.
MATT: You'll find out. It'll be a little while.
You watch as the start of various fungus and fuzzy
mold begins to appear at edges of its corpse.
You've started it; a couple days, maybe you'll
have something that will give you an idea what is
growing.
TALIESIN: Yeah, if it's good I keep it, if it's
bad I toss it.
MATT: Next evening? All right, go ahead and make a
perception check.
TRAVIS: I don't know why I keep volunteering for
fucking perception. 14.
MATT: 14. Okay. Make your survival check for me as
the captain, please. With advantage, because you
have Orly on board.
TRAVIS: 12.
MATT: That's successful, you're not picking up any
additional speed like you were the day before...
okay, uneventful. At one point you pass by a few
small rock islands, bits of stone that are
breaking through the surface, too far away to make
any details. They're not large; one set appears to
be maybe ten, 12 feet across, the other one looks
to be about 40 or so feet across. Just little
breaks in the water, where a little mass of stone
has breached, but that's all you can make out. The
evening goes by, uneventful. By the third day, the
morning comes around, Orly comes up to the top,
comes to you and goes, "Excuse me, Captain. I'm
keeping tabs on our travels southward, I can see
"the reef is approaching."
TRAVIS: Excellent. (laughter) Well, let's prepare
to navigate through it!
TALIESIN: Such captaining.
TRAVIS: I just picked it as a backstory, I didn't know
I'd need to know fucking anything about sailing! Jesus.
SAM: Someone get Travis a subscription to Sailing
Monthly or something.
MATT: There are different-- see those Y marks?
Each one of those is going to be a survival check
to try and maneuver the boat through the reef.
LAURA: Do we get advantages on those or something?
MATT: Yes, because you have Orly with you, and
Orly is working with you side by side, holding up
the map and looking at the scenery. A lot of the
crew's on the deck as well keeping eyes out.
LIAM and SAM: The dodecahedron!
LAURA: Oh, yeah, yeah! Focus on this, Fjord!
LIAM: Take a huff.
MATT: You have your Fragment of Possibility.
TRAVIS: These are survival checks?
MATT: Yes, with advantage. For the first one--
TRAVIS: 16.
MATT: You guys can now see-- at first it just
looks like open water, but then as you begin to
maneuver past the first section, looking down 20
feet, 15 feet, ten feet, some of them barely
breaching the surface, you can see these colorful
reefs that are full of vibrant life, all sorts of
manner of sea creatures and fish going through,
and within a very short distance you can see
broken wood. You can see other ships, the remnants
of which have been scattered across the reef, and
have since been overgrown. Carefully making your
way through this gap, you manage to curve slightly
one bit, the back of your stern scrapes at one
point on one edge, but any damage would be
superficial, and you manage to maneuver past where
you can see one set of sticks that have been tied
together and embedded into the reef just below,
just barely peeking past-- breaking the surface.
And that's the first sign you see of one of those
points.
LIAM: (pirate voice) Dead men tell no tales.
MATT: Now that you've seen it, that's going to be
your guiding point for each portion of this reef.
You and Orly both, going through and traversing
this, you can see the next path before you. Both
of you together, go ahead and make another
survival check with advantage.
TRAVIS: Got to use the dodeca.
MATT: All right, roll one more. You only roll one
more, so pick one and roll it.
TRAVIS: That's a ten.
MATT: Total is a ten?
TRAVIS: Survival is minus two for me.
SAM: Minus two? You're our fucking captain!
TRAVIS: Not very wise!
MATT: All right then. As you make your way through
the next portion of the reef, turning it over, you
hear it impact a heavy portion of the reef, scraping
across it. The ship's hull does take damage.
LAURA: Gallan, go! Go fix it!
MATT: Okay, that is 11 points of hull damage.
Eventually pulls past and dislodges from the
MATT: reef. Looking behind, you can see parts of it
that are broken and falling in and pieces of wood
that have been dragged off and splintered. The crew
rushes down inside and making an investigation
check-- pretty high-- they do not see any damage
to the hull that's taking on water, but that was
not a happy thing. You do not know how many more
of those type of hits you'll take before the ship
begins to take on water and they can't do repairs
to the hull unless it's in a port of some kind.
TRAVIS: There's not a hit point counter on the
wheel? That's ticky tock?
LAURA: I'm going to stay down where it was and
cast Mending as much as possible.
MATT: You have no visual perspective on it. All
the damage is below the surface of the water.
LAURA: Oh, yeah. At all. I'm just going to keep my
hands on the--
MATT: Just in case. Okay.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Keeping low. All right, so that's the
second one. You're marking each of these
that you pass by?
TRAVIS: Yeah. One and two. We're on the third.
MATT: We're on the third.
MARISHA: Come on.
MATT: Go ahead and try again now.
TRAVIS: Natural 20.
MATT: Okay! The channel you've made your way
through in the reef is getting narrower and you
can see elements of the reef are beginning to
vanish into just jutting pieces of stone. It looks
like, in a weird way from a distance, like a
series of gravestones. Familiar to you as you pass
by as bits of rock are breaking the surface, some
at odd angles and there were semblances of stone
spires that naturally jut from underneath the
water that the reef is built on over time. The
channel gets thinner here, but thankfully after
that last hit, you dig deep in yourself and be
like, "No, I've seen ships go through this, I'm
getting the feel for this whole captain thing,"
and between you and Orly communicating, you manage
to just make it through the channel. At a point,
all of you hold your breath as you see elements of
the reef that should be wide enough to put maybe a
ship that's slightly larger than the one you have
in, but with even just a small narrow margin of
failure here, you would've ground against the side
of one or the other side. You cut straight through
perfectly, balancing on both sides, coming past
the third marker beneath the surface, this one
breaking through about a foot past the water. As
you spin around, you guys begin to just barely see
the shadowed landmass of an island beginning to
appear as your destination. As you come to the
final portion of the reef's channel, go ahead and
make your final check.
LAURA: Come on, Tusktooth!
TRAVIS: 13.
MATT: 13. You come through the last portion of
this. It's a very tight location and you and Orly
look back and forth. You may have been a little
off in the portion of the reef you thought you
were supposed to take through this broken channel
and as you do-- it seems fine, and you're looking
at the front of the ship, a bunch of them gathered
at the bow, and look over, both on port and
starboard side and go, "I think we'll be all
right!" (crashing)
SAM: Oh no!
MATT: Grinds over a portion of the reef, the ship
jolts. It wasn't a hard hit. You're just grinding
over the top of it and you're breaking a lot of
the reef right there in the process of doing so.
You don't take as much damage as the last hit, but
you do take some damage. That's a bad roll. You
take nine more hull damage. With that, Jester,
(whooshing) water begins to pour in from the side.
This is less of just mending a small object; this is
structural hull damage.
LAURA: Gallan! Gallan, come on, carpenter!
SAM: Gallan, wake up!
MATT: A single break or tear in an object you
touch. Mending is not going to help you with this.
LAURA: No.
MATT: Gallan and anybody who wants to come help,
the hull is now taking on water.
LAURA: Yeah, I want to help block it.
MATT: Okay. What are you doing to help block it?
LAURA: I'm going to--
MATT: It's essentially a one, one-and-a-half foot
long break and the wood is torn away, it's broken
apart, and there's a gap where the water's now
pouring in.
LAURA: Is there any furniture I can rip apart and
we can nail to it real fast?
MATT: Make a perception check real fast as you
glance around the chamber.
LAURA: That dropped out of my hand, it shouldn't
count. Aw, it was so much better when it didn't. Nine.
SAM: Oh, rough.
MATT: Looking around, there's some of the barrels
and in the various quarters of the interior of the
ship there's some cots and there's some sacks and
whatever supplies people brought with them.
Nothing comes to mind, looking around. You're kind
of panicking. All the rest of the crew are
suddenly coming down they're starting to get a
bucket chain, trying to just get water out of
there as they have no idea at the moment. Gallan
gets his tools, starts looking around for whatever
scrap materials they had purchased. You're now an
inch of water in the bottom of the ship. Anyone
else doing anything to help here?
SAM: Some barrels. Come on, captain, tell us what
to do!
TRAVIS: I have no idea.
SAM: You're the fucking captain!
TRAVIS: Abandon ship!
SAM: No!
LAURA: Can I use one of the barrels and start
scooping the water into the barrel and lift the
barrel up and out and try to carry it?
MARISHA: Me and Yasha help with the barrel-train.
MATT: You guys are slowing the water coming on
board.
SAM: Oh, Caleb! You're a wizard, freeze the
water!
LIAM: I am not able to do that.
SAM: Ah!
LAURA: Can we take the barrel that I was holding
the water in and stick it over the hole and then
hold it?
MATT: You can certainly try.
MARISHA: I miss my druid.
MATT: Yeah. Yasha goes and grabs the other side of
the barrel and both of you go try and force and
hold it there.
LIAM: I start working on Leomund's Tiny Hut. It's
going to take some time.
MATT: All right. How much time?
LIAM: Ten minutes. 11 minutes, yeah.
MATT: I need you to go ahead and make a strength
check, with Yasha's help, with advantage.
LAURA: Okay. Goddamn it, really? 12.
MATT: 12. You hold the barrel over and it seals.
(bursting water) You're holding it there but it's
spraying around the edges. The barrel immediately
fills, and you're now trying to cork the hole with
this barrel and it's just (spraying sounds) all
around you--
SAM: Fjord, go swim down on the outside and plug
it from the outside. Go!
MARISHA: With what?!
SAM: Bring something!
MARISHA: What?
SAM: Some pieces of wood!
TALIESIN: Do we have a mattress or something like
that? Do we have anything?
MATT: They're less mattresses in the ship. There
are cots. There is actually a mattress in the
captain's quarters. There's the one mattress.
TRAVIS: Sure, I'll drag that out and jump over the
side and try and push up against the hole.
MARISHA: It's fabric!
MATT: Is that what you're doing?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
TALIESIN: I'm going to join you and tie ourselves
off and I'm going to also cast Water Walk if
you're into it on--
TRAVIS: I'm thrilled. We can still go underwater
though, right?
MATT: Yeah, and you can walk on the surface if you
choose to.
TALIESIN: I'm going to give you Water Walk for the
moment because you're probably stronger than I am.
I should probably not do this.
MARISHA: I'll go up there and hold that safety
line that you were talking about.
TALIESIN: You've got Water Walk.
TRAVIS: I throw the mattress in, I jump in after
it, and I try and go under--
MATT: You can stand on the surface and then,
below--
TALIESIN: There's a suction.
MATT: You get below and you get the mattress--
what do you do?
TRAVIS: I press it against the outside of the ship
and hope the current (suctioning).
MATT: Okay, make a perception check because it's
under the water and you're not entirely certain
where-- there's a large scrape section where a lot
of the reef pulled against the hull.
TRAVIS: 20.
MATT: 20, yeah. Glancing down, as you're about to
go help, you look and you can see, of all the
damage that's taken that's superficial, there's
one section where it looks like a heavy groove is
carved out from that last impact, and there you
can see this faint shift of the water pouring
through that gap. You take and hold down the
mattress and it pulls against it. It's there in
place-- the suction's holding it. You're not sure
how long it'll hold there without anything holding
it in place.
TALIESIN: I'm going to run down below and-- all
right, fix it! Fix it, now! Got to get it up! I
start trying to pull the barrels apart--
MATT: Gallan, at this point, has his tools and
starts handing out nails left and right. He
brought an additional set of tools so two of you
can--
TALIESIN: I'm also going to cast Light in there to
make it super, super light.
MATT: While you're brightening that, Gallan's over
there. He's hammering in the nails--
LAURA: I'll help.
MATT: Two barrels down, pulled apart to get
materials to try and patch this.
MARISHA: I'm still part of the water bucket
brigade.
LIAM: Correction for me, not 11 minutes, 20
minutes. Still doing it.
SAM: I'm on the top of the-- crow's nest? Is that
what it's called?
MATT: Crow's nest is the very top.
SAM: As far away from the water as possible.
MATT: Okay. "Looking good!"
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: All right, great. You're there. Because the
ship is still moving, you're having to hold it in
place while walking on the side. It seems to be
holding itself okay for the time being, just from
the pressure of the water, but it's starting to
slide off as it goes. It's a weird scenario where
now that it's blocking the section, there's no
suction, there's just the pressure of the water,
but as it moves it is sliding along with it.
TRAVIS: I'll take the sword, shove it-- no, I'm
just kidding.
MATT: All right. Jester, you're helping out with
the repairs? Make a general d20 check.
LAURA: Two.
MATT and MARISHA: Aw.
MATT: I lost that d20, I'll pick that up later.
Oh! Natural 20 on Gallan's turn. If you needed
that any time, it's fucking now!
LAURA: Ooh, Gallan!
MATT: Gallan sees you mucking up. (grunting) "Let
me do it, hold on. Here's how you place it over--
"fuck it. Shit." He does it himself. He goes to
town, and earns his keep since he arrived here.
One by one, begins taking the best parts of the
barrel that Yasha helped him break, begins holding
it in place. "Hold this here!" He starts nailing
it down. Eventually, over the 20 or so minutes it
takes for him to cast the spell, he patches it in
a way where he's like, (Scottish accent) "This will
"hold for a little bit. But we're going to
have--" Why'd I go Scottish there for a second?
"This will hold for a little bit. I don't know how
long. We're going to have to figure out some way
"to fix this, get it to shore, or something."
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: Yes, of course.
MATT: (sighs) "Okay."
TRAVIS: I say from outside the boat: Yeah.
MATT: As you're walking alongside the boat, it's
going to pick up speed a little bit here. You're
going to have to either have to let this mattress
go or find a way to keep it in place. What are you
going to do?
TRAVIS: I'll let it go.
MATT: Okay. The mattress slides away and you see
water (spraying). It's a slow leak. It is still
taking on water, but slowly.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: It's a patch job. When Caleb returns, he can
tell us what the fuck he was planning with the spell.
TRAVIS: I'll tug on the line and get myself pulled
back up into that boat.
SAM: We're taking on water?!
TRAVIS: Yeah.
SAM: Oh god. We have to-- anything non-essential
just throw overboard!
LAURA: No, no, no.
TRAVIS: We got to get the crow's nest out of the
boat.
SAM: No, everything overboard. Everything! The
sails, everything.
MATT: The crew now rapidly getting the water out
of the bottom of the cargo hold. They're throwing
it overboard. You gather with the slow leak, in
the next couple hours they'll be able to minimize
the amount of water that's below there.
LAURA: Okay.
MARISHA: Does it look like there's a little island
nearby?
TRAVIS: Yes, we've done the final turn, so we
could try and push towards the island, but we're
going to have to beach it.
MATT: You guys are now turning towards the island
and it's an open bay now. You passed the reef, and
you're heading towards the island of Urukayxl.
TALIESIN: Is there anywhere that looks like a dock,
or anywhere that looks like it's appropriate to--?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I am. I think that's right, 26.
MATT: 26. No dock, but you do see another ship.
SAM: Ah!
TRAVIS: What's your spell do?
LAURA: What was your spell doing?
LIAM: I'm making the tiny hut, but I don't know
how much time has passed while I was peeing.
MATT: 20 minutes as they've try to makeshift plug
the hole. It's a slow leak still, but they've
managed to hold it off.
LIAM: A ten-foot radius, immobile dome of force
springs into existence around and above you and
remains stationary for the duration. Environment
or weather can't get in, so that's up to you if
the ocean can get in or not.
MATT: I would say-- you know what, that's clever.
I will say if you choose not to let the ocean in,
it will not.
LAURA: Yay!
LIAM: It is totally transparent. All of us can
look through it and see into the ocean.
SAM and LIAM: Glass bottom boat!
MATT: There you go.
LAURA: How long will it stay?
LIAM: Eight hours.
LAURA: Nice. Long enough for us to patch it up.
LIAM: I can certainly, 20 minutes in advance, get
it going again. As long as I can focus, indefinitely.
TRAVIS: We've approached the island. We have
another boat.
TALIESIN: How do you want to play this?
TRAVIS: What?
TALIESIN: That's another boat. Are we making
ourselves known or are we not making
ourselves known?
LAURA: Off to the side. Park it away from the
other boat.
TRAVIS: But I think it's daytime, right?
MATT: It is, yeah.
TRAVIS: If we can see them, they can see us.
TALIESIN: How far away is the other boat?
MATT: I'd say it's--
TALIESIN: Is it possible they haven't seen us
yet?
MATT: They're about maybe-- as you're breaking
past the reef, they're a few miles away.
TALIESIN: Would it be reasonable to think they've
seen us by this point?
MATT: It's possible. If you can see them with your
naked eye, there's a chance they've seen you, but
you don't know. You have no way to confirm that.
MARISHA: Does it look like they're coming or going
from that island?
MATT: You just noticed them, you don't see any
motion yet. You'd probably have to try and
gauge it over a period of time.
TRAVIS: I will try to increase our speed towards
the island in the direction away from them and
aim to get on the island, if we can.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: You are covering that. You've given that
information to Orly and he's like, "All right.
"I'll keep to that way there." He begins to lead you
in that direction, you move the ship that way.
Keeping watch as you're shifting around. Are you
going south or north side? You're heading south
towards the island as you went through
the reefs, so now you're on the northwestern
side of the island.
TRAVIS: It just depends on where the ship was, if
it was directly ahead of us or towards the north
or the south, we'd obviously go the opposite way.
MATT: Okay, it's a little bit north of where
you're headed.
TRAVIS: We're going to the southern tip.
MATT: You're cruising, and you're keeping an eye
closely you watch as the ship was stationary
begins to move in the direction you're traveling.
SAM: Oh no.
TRAVIS: We're going to ground this ship. We're
going straight into the beach and we're going to
run our asses into the fucking jungle.
SAM: How will we get back?
TRAVIS: I don't know. We're not there yet.
SAM: You are a terrible captain.
TRAVIS: I throw Nott overboard. Full sail!
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: I grab her and bring her back. No, I'm
just kidding.
MARISHA: You know that video of the monkeys
throwing the raccoon?
TRAVIS: Oh yeah!
MARISHA: That's what I imagined.
MATT: In pushing the ship ahead as fast as you can
with the hole plugged, towards the south side of the
island in the attempt to beach it, as you continue
the ship is moving to head you off at the pass.
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MATT: Eventually you start getting a closer look
at it, and it's a bigger ship than the one you
have now. It's dual mast.
TRAVIS: Yep. Does it have some trap doors on the
side of the--?
MATT: Well, make a perception check.
TRAVIS. Yeah. 16.
MATT: You look and you don't see any, and then you
do because one of them opens. You watch as one of
the gun ports (popping).
TALIESIN: I'm going to raise the flag?
TRAVIS: Yeah, why not.
SAM: What flag do we have?
LIAM: The white flag.
TALIESIN: The blue flag.
TRAVIS: We've got the gray wave one.
MATT: Okay, as you get situated, you hear (cannon
explosion) (water splashing), but a ways away.
SAM: It's a warning shot!
MATT: Yeah. It is a warning shot.
TRAVIS: Uh-huh.
SAM: Raise the flag!
TALIESIN: I rose it, it's been risen. It is
risen.
TRAVIS: I use Mask of Many Faces to make myself
look like Captain Jawgrasp. You, lower the flag
and-- hmm. Fuck, I don't know. Jesus Christ.
TALIESIN: It's tough being the smart one, eh?
LIAM: Yeah, no more Grog.
TALIESIN: Be bold.
TRAVIS: Yeah, fuck it, we're going to beach the ship.
We're just going to keep driving towards the island.
MATT: You're going to keep going?!
TRAVIS: Yep.
LIAM: (excitedly) Yeah!
TRAVIS: How far are we? That's another question.
MATT: Oh you're probably, at this point, about a
mile and a half, two miles.
TRAVIS: Oh no no, nevermind. No. We'll slow down
the ship a little.
MATT: Yeah, it's quite a distance from the island,
you notice it as you go to move. It's quite a ways.
TRAVIS: Okay, yeah. We'll lower the flags, slow
the ship.
MATT: Okay. You slow the ship-- do you come to a
stop?
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MATT: All right. The ship, you bring it slowly
down. Do you drop anchor?
SAM: Caleb? I want to talk about mutiny.
MATT: As you're watching off to the side, you can
see all the gun ports are open now. But you see
two smaller boats that are now coming towards you
from the other ship. You can see two separate
small crews that are rowing in your direction.
TRAVIS: Cool. Let's lower the rope ladder over the
side and welcome them aboard.
TALIESIN: You could technically stand and offer, I
might add. Since you can actually stand on water.
TRAVIS: I can what?
TALIESIN: You can stand on water right now..
TRAVIS: Oh, I don't know if he did that, so let's
not.
MATT: The other ship has maneuvered up to the
point where it is now, its full starboard side is
facing you, full gun ports open. You're in a bad
position.
TRAVIS: Yep!
MARISHA: Is there anything in the sails? Any
flags, iconography?
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: My perception checks have been garbage.
Six.
MATT: There is one sail that is currently
partially unfurled. But from this distance it
looks like it's facing away from you, from the
direction you're looking, so you can't make out
any details on it. But there is some sort of
stitching in it.
TALIESIN: We do have his flag up, though.
MATT: Yeah, you do have the ship's flag up above
the Mistake. As these row boats steadily make
there way towards your ship, the moment of
possible parley approaching, we're going to end
the episode there. We'll pick up there for our
live show in New York next week.
SAM: Boats!
LIAM: Boats in New York.
MARISHA: Weren't we on boats for our first Gen Con
liveshow?
MATT: No, you guys were in the Feywild. You fought
a feymire crocodile there.
LIAM: Just lost the southern tip.
TALIESIN: Just the tip.
SAM: Oh boy, does that mean we all need to wear
sailing clothing to our show in New York?
MATT: (laughs) You should, Sam.
TALIESIN: Oh man.
MARISHA: That's actually a good thing. We were
trying to figure out what to wear!
TALIESIN: We've been having that discussion about
what to wear.
MARISHA: We do the cast of South Pacific.
Yeah!
SAM: Yes! Ooh! Could we all get sailor's costumes
with the bell bottoms?
MARISHA: Can the ladies be pirates?
LAURA: Yeah!
TALIESIN: It can't be hard--
SAM: Fleet week!
MATT: Careful, guys, you're making promises the
internet live right now.
LAURA: We'll figure something out.
SAM: Call a rental house.
TALIESIN: I was going to say we could also get
some blue bell bottoms and some Japanese school
tops and fake it.
MARISHA: I mean, I know you can two-day ship any
type of--
LAURA: Costume on Amazon.
MARISHA: Yeah. Especially ones that look like for
sex role play. You can get tons of those.
TALIESIN: I don't know what video very
specifically--
LIAM: You heard it here. Next week in New York,
live on stage.
SAM: Live sex. Live sailor sex!
TALIESIN: It's the pilot--
MARISHA: I was going to say, it was the high school
pilot outfit.
TALIESIN: I know exactly what you're talking
about.
LIAM: Your shipping dreams and your shipping
dreams are coming true.
MATT: On that note, guys.
SAM: Thank you, Backblaze!
MATT: Thank you, Backblaze. Thank you, D&D Beyond.
Thank you guys for coming along with us for a
crazy nautical adventure this week.
LAURA: Yay!
MATT: We love you, and in tougher times, we love
you a lot. Have a wonderful week. We'll see you
next Thursday, and is it Thursday yet? Good
night.
[music]